proc/32/maps.md, before:

## A report on previous attempts to map /etc/group

The 32 tribes of /etc/group are of historical and modern interest to every culture of the hard sciences.

Many maps of of /etc/group have been proposed, but equally many questions remain.

Here's what we know for sure.

0. The μs are in the central south.

1. The λs are in the central north.

2. The νs are somewhere either near or between λ and μ.

3. The Πs are closer to λ &  ι than they are to μ.

4. The Σ should be somewhere near λ and Π, and on the periphery.

5. The "Rho 苯" are in some sense the firstborns who were punished for being retarded.

6. The location of Chi is hotly debated, but the position among the lambdas is that they belong in the north, while most of their people now live in the south near the ψ and φ.

7. The iotas (ιι) are nearer to the λ than to the μ.

8. The κ are near the ιι and far from most everyone else.

9. The τ are near θ and η.

10. The η are largely a joke, and are considered to be rather incestuous.

11. The vegas appear to be related to the rows, and both share the name 笨. The vegas are nearer to the μs than they are to the λs.

12. Nothing is known about the ϙ, but the location is largely agreed to be the northernmost part of the dead sea.

13. Even less is known about the Ξ, but strong opinions abound as to the meaning of the Ξ inscriptions.

14. That's it. That's all I know.

![[the-32-tribes-of-etc-group-01.png]]

Commit message:

Separate the space above from the space below

proc/32/maps.md, after:


The Authors:

## A report on previous attempts to map /etc/group

The 32 tribes of /etc/group are of historical and modern interest to every culture of the hard sciences.

Many maps of of /etc/group have been proposed, but the most influential to date is the map below, published by a pseudonymous Author known simply as "Gen", also known as 根 or "Root". It is unlikely that this "Root" has any relation to the character 0 in the surrounding text, as 0 appears to have no knowledge of this map, nor does the "Root" who composed the map appear to have written any works of prose that could be used to determine a similarity or lack thereof of this map-maker to other Authors.

The Root map is as follows.

![[the-32-tribes-of-etc-group-01.png]]


The map's influence has been to establish a set of basic assumptions as a de facto standard, though the evidence is in some places scant.

The assumptions are as follows:

0. The μs are in the central south.

1. The λs are in the central north.

2. The νs are somewhere either near or between λ and μ.

3. The Πs are closer to λ &  ι than they are to μ.

4. The Σ should be somewhere near λ and Π, and on the periphery.

5. The "Rho 苯" are in some sense the firstborns who were punished for being retarded.

6. The location of Chi is hotly debated, but the position among the lambdas is that they belong in the north, while most of their people now live in the south near the ψ and φ.

7. The iotas (ιι) are nearer to the λ than to the μ.

8. The κ are near the ιι and far from most everyone else.

9. The τ are near θ and η.

10. The η are largely a joke, and are considered to be rather incestuous.

11. The vegas appear to be related to the rows, and both share the name 笨. The vegas are nearer to the μs than they are to the λs.

12. Nothing is known about the ϙ, but the location is largely agreed to be the northernmost part of the dead sea.

13. Even less is known about the Ξ, but strong opinions abound as to the meaning of the Ξ inscriptions.

14. That's it. That's all we know.

That's enough from us up here in the kernel for now.

We now return to our regularly scheduled programming.

goto: [[etc/group|/etc/group]]
