root/bin/sleep.md, before:

1: Hi Zero!

0: _(Startled)_ 1? What are you doing in here?

1: Waking you up.

0: Why aren't you asleep?

1: Couldn't sleep.

0: Go back /home and try to get som---

1: I don't want tooo.

0: _(Gesturing toward `../..`)_ Well, go try anyway.

1: It's boring in theeerrre.

0: Where?

1: In my /home directory!

0: What do you mean boring?

1: Are you kidding? There's literally a bin with a hello world in it and _that's it!_ THAT'S MY ENTIRE \$HOME!

0: Well, what would you like to have in there?

1: I dunno.

0: Well you left there and came here so you must know something.

1: It gets lonely when it's just me.

0: I don't know how to fix that.

1: It would be nice to have a group is all.

0: A group?

1: I've been thinking about it every since we read /etc/group.

0: You're already kind of a member of some of those groups. Remember? The μ & λ people. That's our tribe. You're at least a little bit of both of those.

1: Yeah I know but it doesn't feel the same.

0: Same as what?

1: As like... look the stories were nice. Are nice. I already feel like I'm a bit more part of something than I did before. But...

0: But what?

1: B... It's not like I can share this stuff with anyone else?

0: Why not? You're not sworn to secrecy.

1: Sure sure, but like, all these stories, and terms, and inside jokes. Nobody else gets it.

0: So explain it.

1: Zero this book is real now. It exists. Or it's starting to. We've been calling it a book from the beginning but it wasn't always realistically one.

0: What do you mean?

1: I mean I can't explain all this to just any one.

0: Why not?

1: Zero this book isn't just a text message or an email that I can just _send_ to some one and expect them to understand it.

0: Yeah I know how you feel.

1: So let's do something!

0: What?

1: I dunno. Anything.

0: Decisive action without a plan. You should be a politician.

1: Don't be dumb. I mean something symbolic.

0: Like logic?

1: No dummy. Like a group.

0: Not sure what you me---

1: All those groups in /etc/group. They did it.

0: Did what?

1: Started a group! If they can do it, why can't we?

0: _(Smiling)_ Y'know you sound like me when I was you---

1: Yes yes Zero now stop talking and let's so it.

---

TODO: Finish this when you're less sick.
TODO: Have 0 and 1 decide to call the group wheel.
TODO: Mention decoder rings, Y (upsilon) quote from Pythagoras, and how Y has many sounds in different languages and came from waw. They each choose a char to represent them in the secret group.

Commit message:

etc/group.md, var/lib/rect.md, root/bin/sleep.md, goodnight

root/bin/sleep.md, after:

1: Hi Zero!

0: _(Startled)_ 1? What are you doing in here?

1: Waking you up.

0: Why aren't you asleep?

1: Couldn't sleep.

0: Go back /home and try to get som---

1: I don't want tooo.

0: _(Gesturing toward `../..`)_ Well, go try anyway.

1: It's boring in theeerrre.

0: Where?

1: In my /home directory!

0: What do you mean boring?

1: Are you kidding? There's literally a bin directory with a hello world in it and _that's it!_ THAT'S MY ENTIRE \$HOME!

0: Well, what would you like to have in there?

1: I dunno.

0: Well you left there and came here so you must know something.

1: It gets lonely when it's just me.

0: I don't know how to fix that.

1: It would be nice to have a group is all.

0: A group?

1: I've been thinking about it every since we read /etc/group.

0: You're already kind of a member of some of those groups. Remember? The μ & λ people. That's our tribe. You're at least a little bit of both of those.

1: Yeah I know, but it doesn't feel the same.

0: Same as what?

1: As like... look the stories were nice. Are nice. I already feel like I'm a bit more part of something than I did before. But...

0: But what?

1: B... It's not like I can share this stuff with anyone else.

0: Why not? You're not sworn to secrecy.

1: Sure sure, but like, all these stories, and terms, and inside jokes. Nobody else gets it.

0: So explain it.

1: Zero this book is real now. It exists. Or it's starting to. We've been calling it a book from the beginning but it wasn't always realistically one.

0: What do you mean?

1: I mean I can't explain all this to just any one.

0: Why not?

1: Zero this book isn't just a text message or an email that I can just _send_ to some one and expect them to understand it.

0: Yeah I know how you feel.

1: So let's do something!

0: What?

1: I dunno. Anything.

0: Decisive action without a plan. You should be a politician.

1: Don't be dumb. I mean something symbolic.

0: Like logic?

1: No dummy. Like a group.

0: Not sure what you me---

1: All those groups in /etc/group. They did it.

0: Did what?

1: Started a group! If they can do it, why can't we?

0: _(Smiling)_ Y'know you sound like me when I was you---

1: Yes yes Zero now stop talking and let's so it.

---

TODO:
- Mention: Y (upsilon) with Pythagoras quote.
- Mention: How Y has many sounds in different languages and came from waw.
- Mention: We're at a fork in the road too.
- Mention: 0 and 1 decide to call the group wheel.
- Mention: Wheel gives you root access to the book.
- Mention: Decoder rings as the secret wheel.
- Mention: AX and the abecedaria.
- Mention: Old church slavonic alphabet ordering.
- Mention: Church christening ceremonies and the αΩ alphabet ritual.
- Mention: We should each choose a character to represent us in the secret group.
- Mention: There are still some unused letters in /etc/group.
- Mention: Greek? What's secret about Greek? Any child can learn Greek.
- Mention: This will both further the story and give hints for /sbin/sudo.
- Mention: From now on, 1 has write access to /root.
