etc/group.md, before:


---

TODO: The current file is just an extremely skeletal table of contents.

TODO: This file frames the rest of the book by giving names to the various cultures in mathematics and computing that we'll refer to throughout the rest of the story, as we track how computing develops from 1937 (where we left off) until 20XY (the modern day.)

TODO: In this file, we learn about all the other cultures and tribes in mathematics and computing, where The Lambdas and The Mus fit in to that world, and how they're similar and different from each other.

---

# The /etc/groups

## α: Algebra


## β: Umm

0: It's not polite to call a group the betas.

## γ: Geometry


## δ: Calculus
0: This includes differential and integral calculus in one variable, multiple variables, or infinitely many variables in the so-called calculus of variations. This culture is marked by its use of infinitesimals rather than the semi-formal methods of "analysis" popularized by Weierstrass, Dedekind, Cauchy, et al. This culture is found primarily in physics departments, though it is equally at home in applied mathematics.

## ε: Analysis

0: This includes real analysis, complex analysis, functional analysis, and any semi-formal approach to the subjects that began with Newton and Leibniz and which are now called Calculus. Distinguished by their use of ε-δ arguments.

## ζ: Number theory
0: Don't be misled by the name. This field isn't just about numbers. In fact it barely even involves numbers at all these days, except perhaps a prime here and there. This group is named for the Riemann Zeta function. I won't elaborate further. Suffice it to say this group is culturally distinct in nearly every way from the "formal number theory" of first order arithmetic, commonly seen in foundational cultures.

## η: The Catedral

> "I didn't invent categories to study functors; I invented them to study natural transformations."
> - Saunders MacLane

0: Category Theory. Completely incomprehensible. MacLane said that he didn't invent category theory to study categories or even functors, but rather to study natural transformations. Natural transformations are commonly denoted by η. Hence the name. Often referred to as The Cathedral, The Catedral, The Caθedral, The Cat-holics, or various other harmless slurs. Members more commonly refer to themselves as "The Naturals," by the term "Abstract Nonsense," or simply by drawing diagrams.

## θ: Topology

0: The name is a bit of a slur since their field is known not to preserve angles. Also includes the Topos people due to cross pollination from the ηs.

## ι: TBD


## κ: TBD


## λ: The Lambdas
0: Descendants of Church. Latter day members include McCarthy, Curry, Howard, Milner, SPJ, and Wadler. Well known languages descend from the lambda calculus, and include Lisp, Scheme, ML, Haskell, Nix, and Lean. The last two of these examples, namely the Nix package manager and the Lean theorem prover represent a recent expansion of the lambda culture far beyond the small academic circles which they have historically inhabited since the early 1930s.

## μ: The mus
0: Descendants of Godel & Turing. Machines, Moore's Law, practical computing, von Neumann architecture, eventually Unix, C, Python, and everything that runs the modern world. Culturally distinct from the lambdas, though the two cultures share a common origin, and have been gradually recognizing their need for a return to a common culture in recent years. Examples include the increasing presence of lambda expressions in μ languages, and the increasing recognition of the need to minimize shared mutable state.

## ν: Artificial Intelligence
The nus. Cousins of λ & μ, the νs have been around since the beginning of computing, though they are a culturally separate people with distinct norms and traditions from the λs and μs, primarily due to the influence of the δs via backpropagation and the concept of "training" via the concept of gradient descent. The culture of the nus is has been shaped by repeated mass immigrations and emigrations of outsiders due to hype. The culture therefore consists of an unusual mixture of devoted intellectuals and distracted business types and assorted hype gremlins. In this sense it is not dissimilar from the culture found in cryptocurrency circles. Always focusing on the "new," the nus are the only culture in computing and mathematics known to undergo regular boom-bust cycles, known in the field as "AI winters." The existence of these boom-bust cycles is not due to the nature of the discipline itself, but rather due to the popular appeal of its core goals which has a tendency to attract non-technicals who are interested in anything "nu." Predictably, the non-technicals often grow bored and leave as quickly as they came. As a result, members have grown wary of any mention from outsiders that their field has become "over-hyped," and members were often heard in past eras to utter among themselves the phrase "winter is coming", as they prepared for the funding to dry up and the excitement to abate for another generation. Many believe that the final AI winter has now passed, though the elder members are split among themselves on this issue, both with regard to whether they believe this is in fact the case, and with regard to their individual "p doom" -- the probability each person assigns to the proposition that the accelerating advances in their field will literally lead to the collapse of civilization and/or the destruction of all human life.

## νega: Finance
The letter "vega" is a non-existent Greek letter, arising from Finance Bros seeing the letter "ν" (nu) used as a parameter to describe the volatility of stock options. This culture is neither part of mathematics nor computing, though the various other cultures described here have often been found working technical jobs in companies alongside the vegas.

## Ξ
Nobody knows what this is. Variously called the Xi, 11, 3, 三, and San. Appears to use all of Unicode. Found in the /boot directory and in kernel space.

## ο: The omicrons
Security, cryptography, steganography, encode messages in sequences of o & ο.

## Ο: The big-Omicrons
The culture of Complexity theory and thick books on algorithms. Adjacent to big Pi. Part of the "orthodocs" or orthogonal-documents.

## Π: The Pis
The culture of Computability theory people. Part of the orthodocs. The name Π comes from the [Kleene Mostowski hierarchy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetical_hierarchy), in which the complexity of the first-order formula that describes a given set is related to its degree of unsolvability.

## Ϻ: ???
Deprecated Greek letter [San](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_(letter)), written Ϻ in uppercase and ϻ in lowercase, and pronounced S or Sh. Though San had become largely deprecated and fallen into disuse by the latter half of the 5th century BC, it is often found in abecedaria, particularly those recovered from churches. San became largely obsolete by the second half of the fifth century BC, when it was generally replaced by sigma. Represents no known culture or people in userspace. Despite this, it is often found in enumerations of the /etc/groups, for unknown reasons.

See [[abecedarium|/usr/share/dict/abecedarium]] for more details.

## Ϙ: ???
Deprecated Greek letter Qoppa, written Ϙ in uppercase and ϙ in lowercase. Derived from Phoenician [qopf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qoph) meaning "eye of needle." Represents no known culture or people in userspace. Despite this, it is often found in enumerations of the /etc/groups, for unknown reasons.

## ρ: "The Rows"
Common name for the Rectangle pseudo-culture: A degenerate case of computing culture, it primarily affects non-developers aiming to accomplish some business or scientific goal.

Initial symptoms of this disorder manifest as a set of _behaviors_, not as a set of explicitly stated beliefs. Such behaviors can be summarized by the phrase "Everything is a rectangle." In early stages of this disorder, every object one represents in any domain is represented as a row (less commonly a column) of attributes describing the object in question.

Symptoms of intermediate severity commonly invove either proposing or actually implementing SQL databases of various forms in cases where a simple text file or directory thereof would be sufficient.

As the disorder progresses, affected individuals often acquire a form of Stockholm Syndrome in which they develop explicit beliefs about the superiority of rectangles as a data structure for all or most problems in computing. In such cases, affected individuals are often found arguing for the superiority of "The Relational Model," "primary key," "foreign key," "that's just a join," or "Just use Postgres for everything."

While object oriented programming may be described by the short-hand "Everything is a noun," and functional programming may be described by saying "Everything is a verb," the Rectangle pseudo-culture can be described only by the (never explicitly stated) belief that "Everything is an adjective."

In other words, adjectives, not nouns or verbs, are taken to be primary in this situation. In the "data frame" variant of this disorder, adjectives (columns) often recieving names while the nouns that they belong to (rows) recieve no name, and are instead represented by integer indexes into the large rectangle in which they live.

Areas known to be affected by the Rectangle pseudo-culture include:

- In modern scientific computing: Matlab, R, Scilab.
- In modern business computing: Excel, SQL.
- In ancient scientific computing: Often found in academic uses of Fortran, and (in extreme cases) APL. 

APL appears to be a hybrid between the highly intelligent and free-thinking culture of pre-1900s logic (extreme proliferation of symbols), and the lower intelligence more imitative cultures commonly affected by the rectangle disorder.

Not all uses of rectangles.

---

## Σ: Reverse Mathematics

Stephen Simpson. Also users of Kleene Mostowski. Everything is Σ separation or Σ comprehension. Largely unnoticed by its peers due to where it's sitting.

## σ: Constructivists
No justification for the choice of letter, except the modern slang definition of sigma, namely: "Unlike alphas who lead a group, sigmas are seen as standing at the top of the social pyramid but choosing to remain outside of it." Cousins of the mus and lambdas via the relationship with Kleene.

## τ: General Relativity
Tau stands for proper time.

## υ: Scientific computing?
U for University. Sitting squarely near physics and statistics part of the alphabet. This eventually becomes data science.

## φ: Physics


## χ: Statistics and probability


## ψ: Scientific computing


## ω: Set Theory, Model theory, Proof theory. Descended from Cantor and Gödel. ZFC and NBG live here. Culturally part of the Orthodocs. Was believed to be the foundations of mathematics for over a century, until recently losing ground to the lambdas.

## Ω: Large Cardinals
The most unhinged subculture. Somehow ended up in "foundations of mathematics." Ingests heroic doses of the most potent substances daily. Part of the orthodocs.

Commit message:

/var/lib/rect, /var/lock/daemon.out, /root/bin/sleep, etc

etc/group.md, after:


---

TODO: The current file is just an extremely skeletal table of contents.

TODO: This file frames the rest of the book by giving names to the various cultures in mathematics and computing that we'll refer to throughout the rest of the story, as we track how computing develops from 1937 (where we left off) until 20XY (the modern day.)

TODO: In this file, we learn about all the other cultures and tribes in mathematics and computing, where The Lambdas and The Mus fit in to that world, and how they're similar and different from each other.

---

# The /etc/groups

## α: Algebra


## β: Umm

0: It's not polite to call a group the betas.

## γ: Geometry


## δ: Calculus
0: This includes differential and integral calculus in one variable, multiple variables, or infinitely many variables in the so-called calculus of variations. This culture is marked by its use of infinitesimals rather than the semi-formal methods of "analysis" popularized by Weierstrass, Dedekind, Cauchy, et al. This culture is found primarily in physics departments, though it is equally at home in applied mathematics.

## ε: Analysis

0: This includes real analysis, complex analysis, functional analysis, and any semi-formal approach to the subjects that began with Newton and Leibniz and which are now called Calculus. Distinguished by their use of ε-δ arguments.

## ζ: Number theory
0: Don't be misled by the name. This field isn't just about numbers. In fact it barely even involves numbers at all these days, except perhaps a prime here and there. This group is named for the Riemann Zeta function. I won't elaborate further. Suffice it to say this group is culturally distinct in nearly every way from the "formal number theory" of first order arithmetic, commonly seen in foundational cultures.

## η: The Catedral

> "I didn't invent categories to study functors; I invented them to study natural transformations."
> - Saunders MacLane

0: Category Theory. Completely incomprehensible. MacLane said that he didn't invent category theory to study categories or even functors, but rather to study natural transformations. Natural transformations are commonly denoted by η. Hence the name. Often referred to as The Cathedral, The Catedral, The Caθedral, The Cat-holics, or various other harmless slurs. Members more commonly refer to themselves as "The Naturals," by the term "Abstract Nonsense," or simply by drawing diagrams.

## θ: Topology

0: The name is a bit of a slur since their field is known not to preserve angles. Also includes the Topos people due to cross pollination from the ηs.

## ι: TBD


## κ: TBD


## λ: The Lambdas
0: Descendants of Church. Latter day members include McCarthy, Curry, Howard, Milner, SPJ, and Wadler. Well known languages descend from the lambda calculus, and include Lisp, Scheme, ML, Haskell, Nix, and Lean. The last two of these examples, namely the Nix package manager and the Lean theorem prover represent a recent expansion of the lambda culture far beyond the small academic circles which they have historically inhabited since the early 1930s.

## μ: The mus
0: Descendants of Godel & Turing. Machines, Moore's Law, practical computing, von Neumann architecture, eventually Unix, C, Python, and everything that runs the modern world. Culturally distinct from the lambdas, though the two cultures share a common origin, and have been gradually recognizing their need for a return to a common culture in recent years. Examples include the increasing presence of lambda expressions in μ languages, and the increasing recognition of the need to minimize shared mutable state.

## ν: Artificial Intelligence
The nus. Cousins of λ & μ, the νs have been around since the beginning of computing, though they are a culturally separate people with distinct norms and traditions from the λs and μs, primarily due to the influence of the δs via backpropagation and the concept of "training" via the concept of gradient descent. The culture of the nus is has been shaped by repeated mass immigrations and emigrations of outsiders due to hype. The culture therefore consists of an unusual mixture of devoted intellectuals and distracted business types and assorted hype gremlins. In this sense it is not dissimilar from the culture found in cryptocurrency circles. Always focusing on the "new," the nus are the only culture in computing and mathematics known to undergo regular boom-bust cycles, known in the field as "AI winters." The existence of these boom-bust cycles is not due to the nature of the discipline itself, but rather due to the popular appeal of its core goals which has a tendency to attract non-technicals who are interested in anything "nu." Predictably, the non-technicals often grow bored and leave as quickly as they came. As a result, members have grown wary of any mention from outsiders that their field has become "over-hyped," and members were often heard in past eras to utter among themselves the phrase "winter is coming", as they prepared for the funding to dry up and the excitement to abate for another generation. Many believe that the final AI winter has now passed, though the elder members are split among themselves on this issue, both with regard to whether they believe this is in fact the case, and with regard to their individual "p doom" -- the probability each person assigns to the proposition that the accelerating advances in their field will literally lead to the collapse of civilization and/or the destruction of all human life.

## νega: Finance
The letter "vega" is a non-existent Greek letter, arising from Finance Bros seeing the letter "ν" (nu) used as a parameter to describe the volatility of stock options. This culture is neither part of mathematics nor computing, though the various other cultures described here have often been found working technical jobs in companies alongside the vegas.

## Ξ
Nobody knows what this is. Variously called the Xi, 11, 3, 三, and San. Appears to use all of Unicode. Found in the /boot directory and in kernel space.

## ο: The omicrons
Security, cryptography, steganography, encode messages in sequences of o & ο.

## Ο: The big-Omicrons
The culture of Complexity theory and thick books on algorithms. Adjacent to big Pi. Part of the "orthodocs" or orthogonal-documents.

## Π: The Pis
The culture of Computability theory people. Part of the orthodocs. The name Π comes from the [Kleene Mostowski hierarchy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetical_hierarchy), in which the complexity of the first-order formula that describes a given set is related to its degree of unsolvability.

## Ϻ: ???
Deprecated Greek letter [San](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_(letter)), written Ϻ in uppercase and ϻ in lowercase, and pronounced S or Sh. Though San had become largely deprecated and fallen into disuse by the latter half of the 5th century BC, it is often found in abecedaria, particularly those recovered from churches. San became largely obsolete by the second half of the fifth century BC, when it was generally replaced by sigma. Represents no known culture or people in userspace. Despite this, it is often found in enumerations of the /etc/groups, for unknown reasons.

See [[abecedarium|/usr/share/dict/abecedarium]] for more details.

## Ϙ: ???
Deprecated Greek letter Qoppa, written Ϙ in uppercase and ϙ in lowercase. Derived from Phoenician [qopf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qoph) meaning "eye of needle." Represents no known culture or people in userspace. Despite this, it is often found in enumerations of the /etc/groups, for unknown reasons.

## ρ: "The Rows"
Common name for the Rectangle Pseudo-culture: A degenerate case of computing, it primarily affects non-developers aiming to accomplish some business or scientific goal, though in more severe cases it may affect those who are culturally developers as well.

While object oriented programming may be described by the short-hand "Everything is a noun," and functional programming may be described by saying "Everything is a verb," the Rectangle pseudo-culture can be described by the (never explicitly stated) belief that "Everything is an adjective."

In other words, adjectives, not nouns or verbs, are taken to be primary in this situation. In the "dataframe supremacy" variant of this disorder, all data one recieves is stored in a rectangle with named columns and typically unnamed rows. In this case, it is the adjectives or attributes (namely columns) that recieve names, while the nouns that those attributes belong to (rows) recieve no name, either as types (e.g. Person) or as values (e.g., Dave.) In such situations, the fundamental objects on which the program operates are simply represented by unnamed integer indexes into a large rectangle in which they live.

Not all uses of rectangles as a data structure are a mistake. For the symptoms to meet the diagnostic criteria for this condition, the use of rectangles must lead to a significant impairment of an individual's decision making ability in technical arenas relative to their overall technical competence.

Areas known to be affected by the Rectangle pseudo-culture include:

- In modern scientific computing: Matlab, R, Scilab.
- In modern business computing: Excel, SQL.
- In previous eras: Often found in academic uses of Fortran.
- In the modern era across content domains: The Python scientific computing stack (e.g., Numpy and Pandas) is perhaps the most widely used rectangle toolchain as of the time of this writing. While useful for many problems, overuse of these tools often leads to a progression of the rectangle disorder that undermines the user's ability to achieve their goals.
- Exceptions: Though it is technically an array based language, there is disagreement among experts as to whether APL counts as an instance of the rectangle disorder. Though there is no consensus on this matter, the majority opinion appears to be that use or admiration of APL is a distinct phenomenon. Though use of APL comes with its own set of costs and benefits, it should not be confused with the rectangle pseudo-culture or the disorder observed withing it.

Progression of Symptoms:

- Early symptoms of the rectangle disorder manifest as a set of _behaviors_, not as a set of explicitly stated beliefs. Such behaviors can be summarized by the phrase "Everything is a rectangle." In early stages of this disorder, every object one represents in any domain is represented as a row of attributes describing the object in question.

- Intermediate symptoms commonly invove either proposing or actually implementing SQL databases of various forms in cases where a simple text file or directory thereof would be sufficient.

- In severe cases, as the disorder progresses, affected individuals often acquire a form of Stockholm Syndrome in which they develop explicit beliefs about the superiority of rectangles as a data structure for all or most problems in computing. In such cases, affected individuals are often found using terms or phrases such as "primary key," "foreign key," or "that's just a join," in areas having nothing to do with databases. Such individuals may even brag about their affliction, with language like "Just use Postgres for everything," or "A filesystem is just a database."

- The most extreme cases of the rectangle disorder do not lie on a continuum with the other three severity levels. There is disagreement about whether the most severe cases of this disorder should be treated as more severe. Though the symptoms appear on the surface to be more severe, the underlying cause has been hypothesized to be different. This is an area of active research, and it is beyond the scope of this file to elaborate on the details. See [[rect|/var/lib/rect]] for a more in-depth discussion of these cases.

---

## Σ: Reverse Mathematics

Stephen Simpson. Also users of Kleene Mostowski. Everything is Σ separation or Σ comprehension. Largely unnoticed by its peers due to where it's sitting.

## σ: Constructivists
No justification for the choice of letter, except the modern slang definition of sigma, namely: "Unlike alphas who lead a group, sigmas are seen as standing at the top of the social pyramid but choosing to remain outside of it." Cousins of the mus and lambdas via the relationship with Kleene.

## τ: General Relativity
Tau stands for proper time.

## υ: Scientific computing?
U for University. Sitting squarely near physics and statistics part of the alphabet. This eventually becomes data science.

## φ: Physics


## χ: Statistics and probability


## ψ: Scientific computing


## ω: Set Theory, Model theory, Proof theory. Descended from Cantor and Gödel. ZFC and NBG live here. Culturally part of the Orthodocs. Was believed to be the foundations of mathematics for over a century, until recently losing ground to the lambdas.

## Ω: Large Cardinals
The most unhinged subculture. Somehow ended up in "foundations of mathematics." Ingests heroic doses of the most potent substances daily. Part of the orthodocs.
