etc/security.md, before:

## About Us

![[security-is-here-to-help-001.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help-002.png]]

![[security-theres-no-security-like-food-security-2.png]]

![[password-manager-is-here-to-help.png]]

![[safe-and-secure.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help.png]]

![[security-your-privacy-is-our-data.png]]

![[security-sectigo.png]]

![[security-trustpilot-so-many-reviews.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help-003.png]]

## Your password

❌ Must have at least 1 lowercase letter

❌ Must have at least 1 uppercase letter

❌ Must have at least 1 arabic numeral

❌ Must have at least 1 chinese numeral

❌ Must have at least 1 greek letter numeral

❌ Must be between 7 and 144 characters

❌ Must include one of the following special characters: `_@~!#$^*+-=|\/(){}[].:`

❌ Must not contain any other special characters beside those listed above

❌ Must not contain more than 2 repeating characters

❌ Must not contain your email address

❌ Must not contain 9 or more consecutive numbers

❌ Must not contain spaces

❌ Must not contain your username

❌ Must not contain your social security number

❌ Must not contain your employer identification number

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future pets

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future children

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future spouses

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future relatives

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future interests

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite book, film, sport, or game

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite nation or legally defined region

❌ Must not contain the name of your current religion or its prophets

❌ Must not contain the name of your current religious denomination

❌ Must not contain your high school or its mascot

❌ Must not contain your high school or its mascot

❌ Must not contain the name of any school you attended or applied to

❌ Must not contain the name of your employer, former employer, or future employer

❌ Must not contain the name of your job title, aspirational job title, or a job title for which you would settle

❌ Must not contain the name of your hometown, birthplace, or place from which you have purchased souvenirs or commemorative memorabilia

❌ Must not contain the name of any street you have lived on or any apartment complex you have lived in

❌ Must not contain your phone number, area code, or other uniquely identifying numeral for use in telephony

❌ Must not contain your date of birth, current age, or any past or future ages

❌ Must not contain your astrological sign either as an ASCII string or a Unicode symbol

❌ Must not contain your blood type, MBTI type, or Hogwarts house

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite food, least favorite food, or food you ate in recent memory

❌ Must not contain the name of any allergy, sensitivity, or self-diagnosed condition

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite color or hue

❌ Must not contain the name of any operating system you have used willingly or unwillingly

❌ Must not contain the name of any programming language that is compiled to machine code

❌ Must not contain the name of any framework or third-party library that is installed on the machine

❌ Must not contain the name of any database

❌ Must not contain the name of any ttf or otf font

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in any extant Indo-European language

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in any extant Sino-Tibetan language

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in any extant Afro-Asiatic language

❌ Must not contain words meaning “secure,” “strong,” or “correct”  

❌ Must not contain any words found in the Dictionary of the Standard Modern Dialect of Distributed Colloquial Vernacular

❌ Must not contain repeated characters at a distance of less than 3

❌ Must not contain adjacent characters of Hamming distance less than 3

❌ Must not contain patterns unless the pattern is provably Martin-Löf randomness

❌ Must not contain randomness drawn from /dev/random or /dev/urandom

❌ Must not contain entropy that appears insufficient

❌ Must not contain entropy that appears thermodynamic

❌ Must not contain palindromes, near-palindromes, or emotionally symmetrical strings

❌ Must not contain keyboard walks, mouse paths, or controller button combos

❌ Must not contain lyrics, poems, slogans, or chants

❌ Must not contain prostitution, lest the land fall to whoredom and become full of wickedness.

❌ Must not contain references to time, including days of the week or eras

❌ Must not contain references to space or to planetary objects, official or deprecated

❌ Must not contain references to any tents or portable canopy or pavilion except the Tabernacle

❌ Must not contain references to pure or applied mathematics

❌ Must not contain references to propositional or predicate logic or to formal arithmetic

❌ Must not contain references to computing devices, organical or _in silico_

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in Atbash (אתב״ש),[^1] Albam (אלב״ם),[^2] Avgad (אבג״ד),[^3] or any other of the systems of _ḥillufei otiyyot_ (חילופי אותיות)[^4] known in either Kabbalah or rabbinic Hebrew letter-mysticism

❌ Must be known only to you

❌ Must be known to the system

❌ Must be verified by a third party

❌ Must not be disclosed to any third party

![[oops-were-sorry-for-the-security.png]]

---

_Powered by P ® i.e., st.ly_

---

![[security-is-here-to-help-004.png]]

[^1]: The "Alpha-Omega" cipher.

[^2]: Rot13.

[^3]: Rot1.

[^4]: Lit. "letter substitutions."

Commit message:

Security is here to help

etc/security.md, after:

## About Us

![[security-is-here-to-help-001.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help-002.png]]

![[security-theres-no-security-like-food-security-2.png]]

![[password-manager-is-here-to-help.png]]

![[safe-and-secure.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help.png]]

![[security-your-privacy-is-our-data.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help-005.png]]

![[security-sectigo.png]]

![[security-trustpilot-so-many-reviews.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help-006.png]]

![[security-is-here-to-help-003.png]]

## Your password

❌ Must have at least 1 lowercase letter

❌ Must have at least 1 uppercase letter

❌ Must have at least 1 arabic numeral

❌ Must have at least 1 chinese numeral

❌ Must have at least 1 greek letter numeral

❌ Must be between 7 and 144 characters

❌ Must include one of the following special characters: `_@~!#$^*+-=|\/(){}[].:`

❌ Must not contain any other special characters beside those listed above

❌ Must not contain more than 2 repeating characters

❌ Must not contain your email address

❌ Must not contain 9 or more consecutive numbers

❌ Must not contain spaces

❌ Must not contain your username

❌ Must not contain your social security number

❌ Must not contain your employer identification number

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future pets

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future children

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future spouses

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future relatives

❌ Must not contain the name of your past, present or future interests

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite book, film, sport, or game

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite nation or legally defined region

❌ Must not contain the name of your current religion or its prophets

❌ Must not contain the name of your current religious denomination

❌ Must not contain your high school or its mascot

❌ Must not contain your high school or its mascot

❌ Must not contain the name of any school you attended or applied to

❌ Must not contain the name of your employer, former employer, or future employer

❌ Must not contain the name of your job title, aspirational job title, or a job title for which you would settle

❌ Must not contain the name of your hometown, birthplace, or place from which you have purchased souvenirs or commemorative memorabilia

❌ Must not contain the name of any street you have lived on or any apartment complex you have lived in

❌ Must not contain your phone number, area code, or other uniquely identifying numeral for use in telephony

❌ Must not contain your date of birth, current age, or any past or future ages

❌ Must not contain your astrological sign either as an ASCII string or a Unicode symbol

❌ Must not contain your blood type, MBTI type, or Hogwarts house

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite food, least favorite food, or food you ate in recent memory

❌ Must not contain the name of any allergy, sensitivity, or self-diagnosed condition

❌ Must not contain the name of your favorite color or hue

❌ Must not contain the name of any operating system you have used willingly or unwillingly

❌ Must not contain the name of any programming language that is compiled to machine code

❌ Must not contain the name of any framework or third-party library that is installed on the machine

❌ Must not contain the name of any database

❌ Must not contain the name of any ttf or otf font

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in any extant Indo-European language

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in any extant Sino-Tibetan language

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in any extant Afro-Asiatic language

❌ Must not contain words meaning “secure,” “strong,” or “correct”  

❌ Must not contain any words found in the Dictionary of the Standard Modern Dialect of Distributed Colloquial Vernacular

❌ Must not contain repeated characters at a distance of less than 3

❌ Must not contain adjacent characters of Hamming distance less than 3

❌ Must not contain patterns unless the pattern is provably Martin-Löf randomness

❌ Must not contain randomness drawn from /dev/random or /dev/urandom

❌ Must not contain entropy that appears insufficient

❌ Must not contain entropy that appears thermodynamic

❌ Must not contain palindromes, near-palindromes, or emotionally symmetrical strings

❌ Must not contain keyboard walks, mouse paths, or controller button combos

❌ Must not contain lyrics, poems, slogans, or chants

❌ Must not contain prostitution, lest the land fall to whoredom and become full of wickedness.

❌ Must not contain references to time, including days of the week or eras

❌ Must not contain references to space or to planetary objects, official or deprecated

❌ Must not contain references to any tents or portable canopy or pavilion except the Tabernacle

❌ Must not contain references to pure or applied mathematics

❌ Must not contain references to propositional or predicate logic or to formal arithmetic

❌ Must not contain references to computing devices, organical or _in silico_

❌ Must not contain the word “password” or its equivalents in Atbash (אתב״ש),[^1] Albam (אלב״ם),[^2] Avgad (אבג״ד),[^3] or any other of the systems of _ḥillufei otiyyot_ (חילופי אותיות)[^4] known in either Kabbalah or rabbinic Hebrew letter-mysticism

❌ Must be known only to you

❌ Must be known to the system

❌ Must be verified by a third party

❌ Must not be disclosed to any third party

![[oops-were-sorry-for-the-security.png]]

---

_Powered by P ® i.e., st.ly_

---

![[security-is-here-to-help-004.png]]

[^1]: The "Alpha-Omega" cipher.

[^2]: Rot13.

[^3]: Rot1.

[^4]: Lit. "letter substitutions."
