var/Todo.md, before:


- BEFORE ANYTHING ELSE: Sit down, drink some water, and just start writing the "We are the foundational people" dialogue. This is how the foundations book becomes sudocode and gets written.

- Now that we've got a draft of `root/bin/sh`, 0 should make a point to add a new principle "Finish Hello World." We've established that 0 was working on something and he lost it before 1 arrived. We've also established that 0 is going to recover this document by explaining it to 1. So 0 makes a point to 1 that we've already made some progress: the first step for 1 was also the first step for 0. So together, they add a principle to somewhere in the filesystem, probably `/etc/principles/00-finish-hello-world`.

- Find the old heavily noted Linus talk. There definitely used to be more than this.

- Add Phil Wadler directory.

- Add a constructivism directory with some talks by Andrej Bauer.

- Format Escaping the Ivory Tower.

- Make the book markdown standard compliant. This may take some work, but it'll be worth it. We need to be able to display the exact text of the core book on lots of different platforms.

Commit message:

Where we're going, they don't even have commit messages.

var/Todo.md, after:


- BEFORE ANYTHING ELSE: Sit down, drink some water, and just start writing the "We are the foundational people" dialogue. This is how the foundations book becomes sudocode and gets written.

- Figure out how The Root Enterprise and Hello Corporation and The Dynamic Linker and Doubleunix fit into the narrative of Sudocode. Clearly The Root Enterprise is owned by the 0 character. OK I GOT IT. Dialogue about how 1 has to go to work. Says that 0 doesn't seem to have a job. They talk about that. 0 says actually I'm quite the business type myself. 1 doesn't believe it. Thats when 0 walks 1 through The Root Enterprise. Shows 1 around Hello Corporation. KEY THING: 1 says these aren't businesses. 0 says what do you mean? 1 says "I mean to be a business you have to have a product or a service or a sales pitch or a store." 0 says "Those aren't businesses, those are ways of making money. A business has nothing to do with making money. A business is just a legal thing." Then import BWKH material directly into the story. Everything we've done is food for the book. Onward!

- Now that we've got a draft of `root/bin/sh`, 0 should make a point to add a new principle "Finish Hello World." We've established that 0 was working on something and he lost it before 1 arrived. We've also established that 0 is going to recover this document by explaining it to 1. So 0 makes a point to 1 that we've already made some progress: the first step for 1 was also the first step for 0. So together, they add a principle to somewhere in the filesystem, probably `/etc/principles/00-finish-hello-world`.

- Find the old heavily noted Linus talk. There definitely used to be more than this.

- Add Phil Wadler directory.

- Add a constructivism directory with some talks by Andrej Bauer.

- Format Escaping the Ivory Tower.

- Make the book markdown standard compliant. This may take some work, but it'll be worth it. We need to be able to display the exact text of the core book on lots of different platforms.
