---
cssclasses:
  - large-text
  - font-serif
---
## (5,1): Ex Scriptura

### Or: In the Beginning was Writing
### Or: The Formal Theory of Paper

---

> _We may now construct a machine to do the work of this computer._
> -Alan Turing, 1936

---

In the seventh year of the twentieth century of the Old Calendar,

In the Parent Country of the Old Country,

Turing was born.

And Turing was a liar, primarily to[^1] men,

And had a strong affect on[^2] these men.

Because of his lying and secrecy with them.

Jᴏᴀɴ <span style="font-size: 12pt">ꓷ</span>ᴀʀᴋᴇ.

The word Alan, of Celtic and Breton origins, can mean "handsome" or "cheerful" (from Irish), "little rock" or "pebble" (from Gaelic), or "fox" (from Breton). It may also come from a word meaning "noble".

Joan of Arc's name was written in a variety of ways. There is no standard spelling of her name before the sixteenth century; her last name was usually written as "Darc" without an apostrophe, but there are variants such as "Tarc", "Dart" or "Day". Her father's name was written as "Tart" at her trial.[6] She was called "Jeanne d'Ay de Domrémy" in Charles VII's 1429 letter granting her a coat of arms.[7] Joan may never have heard herself called "Jeanne d'Arc". The first written record of her being called by this name is in 1455, 24 years after her death.

[^1]: Lit. "primarily with" \[sic\] in the Original Text.

[^2]: From Latin _affectus_ meaning variously "to attack" (c. 1600), or meaning "disposition, mood, state of mind or body," a noun use of the adjective _affectus_ meaning "disposed, constituted, inclined towards." Cf. present-participle adjective form _affecting_, "having power to move or excite the feelings."
