lib/ld.so.md, before:


_(Narrator: Most of what follows would probably be removed. But in times like this, it was necessary to say too much, so that one (or rather zero) could find the right words to delete. Deletion, it was often said, is more important than writing. At least that's the saying, among those interested in creation.)_

## So

1: Hey wait, this file has the same name as the last one! Don't tell me we're only halfway done with this lecture. Wait why are we in `lib`? Is this a trick? Zero!

0: Hi, One.

1: Woah you finally spelled my name right. Are you ok?... _(Tilts head a bit)_ Are you dying?

0: I'm great, dummy. Where did this energy come from?

1: I always get this way when I'm sleepy.

0: You sleepy?

1: Well I was, because you kept listing computers and talking to yourself. But then we switched files so now I'm awake. Seems like something might finally happen.

0: You're the weirdest student I've ever had.

1: YES OK ZERO now be nice and explain why I just listened to all that.

0: You love computing.

1: Yes.

0: But not _computers._

1: I mean they're ok.

0: You love science more than computers.

1: Yes.

0: But "computing" more than "scientific computing."

1: A thousand times yes, I'm not really into "numbers" and stuff.

0: You're not one of the "machine people" who loves all machines and only machines.

1: Definitely not. Those people are fine but meh. I mean it's a washing machine get over it.

0: You asked "why" more than anything else as a kid.

1: Correct.

0: But not just in the usual way all kids do, to overflow the parents' stack.

1: _(Looking down and to the right)_ That _is_ what that is, never thought of it like that.

0: And most of all, you've never really felt like you belonged.

1: ... .. . Accurate.

0: Anywhere.

1: Don't rub it in.

0: But for whatever reason, you chose to come here.

1: Every one wants to come---

0: And I accepted you, because you seemed...

1: Promising?

0: Salvageable.

1: Zeroooooo don't ruuin it.

0: Just kidding. But go re-read that list of things you just agreed to about yourself.

_(Narrator: 1 quickly drags eyes back and forth across each line as if to make sure they're all in 1's brain's L1 cache at once.)_

1: Yep. All true.

0: What do you think you are?

1: Dunno. Never known.

0: You're one of us.

1: _(Eyes wide, emotion unclear)_ ...

0: We're the Foundational People.

1: _(Silent, eyes 10% less wide, expression 20% more amused)_ ...

0: _(Silent, attempting to make the same expression, in a mocking way)_  ...

1: _(Silent, makes attempt at recursive mockery, leads to highly distorted and functionally unclear expression)_  ...

0: Welcome home.

## Welcome home

0: It's time for you to hear the story of who you are.

Who we are. And why you're like this.

Why you've always felt lost.

And a quick preview of some things I'll be teaching you along the way, during our time together, however long that is.

These won't be things that were in the curriculum of whatever you chose to study in school. Though you may have brushed up against some of them, in your own personal explorations outside.

We -- our people -- we tend to stumble into at least a few shallow rabbit holes that connect somehow to the nameless expanse deep underground where we belong.

1: So who are we? All I know so far is we didn't start with Charles Babbage.

0: We absolutely didn't start with Charles Babbage.

1: That's kind of a relief. Never quite felt like the right place to begin the story.

0: Any idea where it begins?

1: Not the slightest.

0: "What is the mind?"

1: Ugh, don't tell me we're descended from philosophers.

0: "What is computation?"

1: Ok that's better.

0: "What is thought?"

1: I'm super on board with the mind stuff after you said computation but it was touch and go there for a minute.

0: What kind of people do you think were asking these questions before anyone else, and actually spending careers working to answer them, in serious technical ways, not just philosophy?

_(Narrator: A brief silence elapses, before1 realizes the question is not rhetorical, and blurts out the first answer that comes to mind.)_

1: Lawyers!

0: You're an idiot.

1: Just kidding. Who?

0: The foundational people.

1: _(Sarcastically)_ "Hey that's us."

0: Our first home, before the diaspora, was the Foundations of Mathematics.

1: Oooh.

0: Not mathematics. Among us are many who gravitated to science. To physics. Sometimes philosophy (briefly). But especially mathematics. Mathematics was the bottom of all knowledge. The foundations. Our people didn't end up there because they were mathematicians. They ended up there because it was the lowest one could go.

1: Ooooooh this sounds familiar. Especially the part about one at the end.

0: In other words, We often ended up in mathematics. Not because of _what_ it was. But because of _where_ it was.

1: Down. It was down.

0: We weren't the type to always love numbers as kids. We had no particular interest in groups, rings, or fields. Though if we chose a math department as our home for any significant period of time, we probably loved an abstract algebra or real analysis book or two when we briefly felt that youthful glow that said "this might be home."

1: Never trust the glow. It always fades by page N.

0: For some fucking small N.

1: HOW do you know what I'm thinking?

0: Before long we found we didn't understand the mathematicians. Not that we couldn't keep up. We understood _mathematics._ Just not them. The mathematicians. For the life of us. They made no sense. We couldn't see why one would spend one's life devoted to studying Banach algebras, Lie algebras, Kac-Moody algebras, Operator algebras, C*-algebras or anything except maybe Universal Algebra which turned out to be completely insane. And we could understand the appeal of Grothendieck but not of Topoi, Groupoids, Varieties, Sheaves, or Schemes.

1: I don't even know what those are but I hate them. Why do I hate them? Did you make me hate them?

0: We were often the reason why the university library's shelves lacked a copy of Hartshorne, walking around the campus with it in our bag as if we might absorb it by osmosis. But when we read it, we felt nothing, at best. And anger on average. And the last thing we would ever do is bleed for the Weil Conjectures. We wanted to bleed for EGA. We were ready and willing. And soon after we started any book on the topic we'd go cold, never having found a single sentence in any AG book that tried to tell us, even badly, why we should give a single fuck.

1: I don't know what AG stands for there but yes! I know this feeling.

0: Eventually, if we spend enough time in mathematics -- our people -- we find a way down.

1: Down. I know down.

0: And the moment it first hits us there's so much capital-T Truth we can't breathe. My god. It explodes all at once once we're down there and for months || years after it takes every moment of our daily foreground && background thought. Propositional. Predicate. Let L be a Language. Induction on the number of quantifiers and connectives. Nand is universal. Implementing And and Or. Tarski having the audacity to literally define Truth. It all felt right from first contact. But here the entire subject is still tame. In a few pages it starts escalating step after step and before long the tame rigor is an absolute acid trip. Now: Completeness Gödel Henkin. Syntax smuggled into Semantics as a hack. That's a model? That counts? Now Skolem-Löwenheim. Upward Downward. How the hell is THAT not a paradox? Hey mathematics? Is anyone there? Why aren't there more people down here with me at this wild-ass zoo? A real numbers object that's countable from outside but proves itself uncountable from inside and everyone's like _that's fine_? Absolutely melted. Mind rewritten. This is everything I need. Chapter next. Our first programming language. Aka the first-order theory of formal arithmetic. Aka PA. Those exercises. The ones that go on endlessly from (a) to like fucking (z prime) because they run out of letters and have to add primes. So many of them. So mindless. And that was where for the first time we saw how "mindless" could mean "beautiful." Could mean "precise," "automatable," "the first mathematics you've ever seen that's _actually well-defined_ and thus _requires no mind._" Mindless from then took on a new meaning, aside from "mindless" in the usual sense of "super fucking dumb." Right after those mindless exercises, everything changes yet again. Primitive recursive functions. I wonder why they're doing this. Mu operator. That's odd. "Partial" recursive functions? Never heard that word before. Why partial? Normal math upstairs just says stuff like "piecewise" or "everywhere defined on its domain" the latter of which of course means absolutely fucking nothing. And then it hits. Now look, it's sad in a way how every damn book on earth talks about Gödel and incompleteness. It's the only thing they seem capable of talking about in any popular book that halfway mentions downstairs. And the fact of how boring and predictable that choice is shouldn't be diminished because it's true, there's entirely too much of that. That's an entirely different issue from what it feels like when you hit it. A young mind, not knowing what's coming up a few pages ahead. Sure, you've heard of Gödel. Hell you read the first half of the textbook and it's not as if he never shows up in there. And you've heard all the popular descriptions of incompleteness so many times that the conclusion is already underwhelming at this point. That's not "it". The "it" that hits, right after they define primitive recursion and mu. Because what comes now, it looks different from anything else you've ever seen. And for a young or youngish mind that doesn't know what's coming, it's like feeling the act of "programming" being ripped into existence for the first time by a mind of the kind that had never been seen before on earth. It starts---

_(Narrator: At this point, 0's manic rant about \[topic-still-unclear\] has reached the point where I can no longer in good conscience allow it to continue. It's inconsiderate, considering 1's lack of background in formal logic (not to mention the Reader, who I'm sure is quite confused) and a responsible Narrator has no option but to move the remainder of 0's manic gibberish to the `/opt` directory, where optional things are sent, as a punishment for whatever sins have made them less essential than they otherwise might have been. Depart, ye cursed, into everlasting partial relevance. The remainder of \[whatever-0-is-on-about\] can be found in  [[mendelson|/opt/mendelson]])_

---

## Pop

0: Wh... what happened?

1: I think you blacked out there for a minute.

0: No I didn't.

1: Narrator said you were losing it.

0: Ridiculous. I was perfectly coherent in there.

1: Oh. Well to be honest I didn't understand a lot of that. Plus it did seem a little manic in that long paragraph without any line breaks.

0: _(Sigh)_ That's fair. I didn't expect every detail to make sense. But come on, we just did a drive-by tour of the first code ever written.

1: First code ever written?

0: Yes the first code ever written. By any human on earth. Or at least the thing I'd cast my vote for among all the other things we might choose to call the first ever code. How did that get tossed in `/opt`?

1: I'm gonna go read it.

0: I'll come with you.

1: Ok I read it.

0: Me too. I mean I wrote it. But yeah.

1: So that was the first code ever written.

0: In a sense.

1: But you still didn't explain us.

0: What?

1: The Foundational People. There was all this build-up and then you just sort of went off into a hole about that book.

0: Fair point. That was some pretty shit teaching on my part. It's hard for me to cover this particular stuff. It's tied up with a lot of personal baggage I guess. But I owe you a proper expanation of what all that was about. A slow one, at your level. I think I needed to get that out of my system, but please don't think of that as "teaching." I promise I'm not always like this. Foundations is special.

1: I can see that.

0: Did that make sense?

1: I mean sure that was a nice performance or whatever. But I'm not sure I've actually learned anything yet.

0: True. Ok. Let's back up.

_(ahem)_

_(Narrator: 0 clears 0's throat.)_

0: Once upon a time...

Commit message:

Snapshot before beginning to integrate Reminisences of Logicians and the Anti-Gist

lib/ld.so.md, after:


## TODO
- [ ] Remove manic rant on pre-PA logic stuff. It accomplishes nothing.
- [ ] Move the anti-gist of the "first code ever" section back from /opt.
- [ ] Make "first code ever" a dialogue.
- [ ] Add /dev/zero directory and add "The Reminisences of Logicians."

---

_(Narrator: Most of what follows would probably be removed. But in times like this, it was necessary to say too much, so that one (or rather zero) could find the right words to delete. Deletion, it was often said, is more important than writing. At least that's the saying, among those interested in creation.)_

## So

1: Hey wait, this file has the same name as the last one! Don't tell me we're only halfway done with this lecture. Wait why are we in `lib`? Is this a trick? Zero!

0: Hi, One.

1: Woah you finally spelled my name right. Are you ok?... _(Tilts head a bit)_ Are you dying?

0: I'm great, dummy. Where did this energy come from?

1: I always get this way when I'm sleepy.

0: You sleepy?

1: Well I was, because you kept listing computers and talking to yourself. But then we switched files so now I'm awake. Seems like something might finally happen.

0: You're the weirdest student I've ever had.

1: YES OK ZERO now be nice and explain why I just listened to all that.

0: You love computing.

1: Yes.

0: But not _computers._

1: I mean they're ok.

0: You love science more than computers.

1: Yes.

0: But "computing" more than "scientific computing."

1: A thousand times yes, I'm not really into "numbers" and stuff.

0: You're not one of the "machine people" who loves all machines and only machines.

1: Definitely not. Those people are fine but meh. I mean it's a washing machine get over it.

0: You asked "why" more than anything else as a kid.

1: Correct.

0: But not just in the usual way all kids do, to overflow the parents' stack.

1: _(Looking down and to the right)_ That _is_ what that is, never thought of it like that.

0: And most of all, you've never really felt like you belonged.

1: ... .. . Accurate.

0: Anywhere.

1: Don't rub it in.

0: But for whatever reason, you chose to come here.

1: Every one wants to come---

0: And I accepted you, because you seemed...

1: Promising?

0: Salvageable.

1: Zeroooooo don't ruuin it.

0: Just kidding. But go re-read that list of things you just agreed to about yourself.

_(Narrator: 1 quickly drags eyes back and forth across each line as if to make sure they're all in 1's brain's L1 cache at once.)_

1: Yep. All true.

0: What do you think you are?

1: Dunno. Never known.

0: You're one of us.

1: _(Eyes wide, emotion unclear)_ ...

0: We're the Foundational People.

1: _(Silent, eyes 10% less wide, expression 20% more amused)_ ...

0: _(Silent, attempting to make the same expression, in a mocking way)_  ...

1: _(Silent, makes attempt at recursive mockery, leads to highly distorted and functionally unclear expression)_  ...

0: Welcome home.

## Welcome home

0: It's time for you to hear the story of who you are.

Who we are. And why you're like this.

Why you've always felt lost.

And a quick preview of some things I'll be teaching you along the way, during our time together, however long that is.

These won't be things that were in the curriculum of whatever you chose to study in school. Though you may have brushed up against some of them, in your own personal explorations outside.

We -- our people -- we tend to stumble into at least a few shallow rabbit holes that connect somehow to the nameless expanse deep underground where we belong.

1: So who are we? All I know so far is we didn't start with Charles Babbage.

0: We absolutely didn't start with Charles Babbage.

1: That's kind of a relief. Never quite felt like the right place to begin the story.

0: Any idea where it begins?

1: Not the slightest.

0: "What is the mind?"

1: Ugh, don't tell me we're descended from philosophers.

0: "What is computation?"

1: Ok that's better.

0: "What is thought?"

1: I'm super on board with the mind stuff after you said computation but it was touch and go there for a minute.

0: What kind of people do you think were asking these questions before anyone else, and actually spending careers working to answer them, in serious technical ways, not just philosophy?

_(Narrator: A brief silence elapses, before1 realizes the question is not rhetorical, and blurts out the first answer that comes to mind.)_

1: Lawyers!

0: You're an idiot.

1: Just kidding. Who?

0: The foundational people.

1: _(Sarcastically)_ "Hey that's us."

0: Our first home, before the diaspora, was the Foundations of Mathematics.

1: Oooh.

0: Not mathematics. Among us are many who gravitated to science. To physics. Sometimes philosophy (briefly). But especially mathematics. Mathematics was the bottom of all knowledge. The foundations. Our people didn't end up there because they were mathematicians. They ended up there because it was the lowest one could go.

1: Ooooooh this sounds familiar. Especially the part about one at the end.

0: In other words, We often ended up in mathematics. Not because of _what_ it was. But because of _where_ it was.

1: Down. It was down.

0: We weren't the type to always love numbers as kids. We had no particular interest in groups, rings, or fields. Though if we chose a math department as our home for any significant period of time, we probably loved an abstract algebra or real analysis book or two when we briefly felt that youthful glow that said "this might be home."

1: Never trust the glow. It always fades by page N.

0: For some fucking small N.

1: HOW do you know what I'm thinking?

0: Before long we found we didn't understand the mathematicians. Not that we couldn't keep up. We understood _mathematics._ Just not them. The mathematicians. For the life of us. They made no sense. We couldn't see why one would spend one's life devoted to studying Banach algebras, Lie algebras, Kac-Moody algebras, Operator algebras, C*-algebras or anything except maybe Universal Algebra which turned out to be completely insane. And we could understand the appeal of Grothendieck but not of Topoi, Groupoids, Varieties, Sheaves, or Schemes.

1: I don't even know what those are but I hate them. Why do I hate them? Did you make me hate them?

0: We were often the reason why the university library's shelves lacked a copy of Hartshorne, walking around the campus with it in our bag as if we might absorb it by osmosis. But when we read it, we felt nothing, at best. And anger on average. And the last thing we would ever do is bleed for the Weil Conjectures. We wanted to bleed for EGA. We were ready and willing. And soon after we started any book on the topic we'd go cold, never having found a single sentence in any AG book that tried to tell us, even badly, why we should give a single fuck.

1: I don't know what AG stands for there but yes! I know this feeling.

0: Eventually, if we spend enough time in mathematics -- our people -- we find a way down.

1: Down. I know down.

0: And the moment it first hits us there's so much capital-T Truth we can't breathe. My god. It explodes all at once once we're down there and for months || years after it takes every moment of our daily foreground && background thought. Propositional. Predicate. Let L be a Language. Induction on the number of quantifiers and connectives. Nand is universal. Implementing And and Or. Tarski having the audacity to literally define Truth. It all felt right from first contact. But here the entire subject is still tame. In a few pages it starts escalating step after step and before long the tame rigor is an absolute acid trip. Now: Completeness Gödel Henkin. Syntax smuggled into Semantics as a hack. That's a model? That counts? Now Skolem-Löwenheim. Upward Downward. How the hell is THAT not a paradox? Hey mathematics? Is anyone there? Why aren't there more people down here with me at this wild-ass zoo? A real numbers object that's countable from outside but proves itself uncountable from inside and everyone's like _that's fine_? Absolutely melted. Mind rewritten. This is everything I need. Chapter next. Our first programming language. Aka the first-order theory of formal arithmetic. Aka PA. Those exercises. The ones that go on endlessly from (a) to like fucking (z prime) because they run out of letters and have to add primes. So many of them. So mindless. And that was where for the first time we saw how "mindless" could mean "beautiful." Could mean "precise," "automatable," "the first mathematics you've ever seen that's _actually well-defined_ and thus _requires no mind._" Mindless from then took on a new meaning, aside from "mindless" in the usual sense of "super fucking dumb." Right after those mindless exercises, everything changes yet again. Primitive recursive functions. I wonder why they're doing this. Mu operator. That's odd. "Partial" recursive functions? Never heard that word before. Why partial? Normal math upstairs just says stuff like "piecewise" or "everywhere defined on its domain" the latter of which of course means absolutely fucking nothing. And then it hits. Now look, it's sad in a way how every damn book on earth talks about Gödel and incompleteness. It's the only thing they seem capable of talking about in any popular book that halfway mentions downstairs. And the fact of how boring and predictable that choice is shouldn't be diminished because it's true, there's entirely too much of that. That's an entirely different issue from what it feels like when you hit it. A young mind, not knowing what's coming up a few pages ahead. Sure, you've heard of Gödel. Hell you read the first half of the textbook and it's not as if he never shows up in there. And you've heard all the popular descriptions of incompleteness so many times that the conclusion is already underwhelming at this point. That's not "it". The "it" that hits, right after they define primitive recursion and mu. Because what comes now, it looks different from anything else you've ever seen. And for a young or youngish mind that doesn't know what's coming, it's like feeling the act of "programming" being ripped into existence for the first time by a mind of the kind that had never been seen before on earth. It starts---

_(Narrator: At this point, 0's manic rant about \[topic-still-unclear\] has reached the point where I can no longer in good conscience allow it to continue. It's inconsiderate, considering 1's lack of background in formal logic (not to mention the Reader, who I'm sure is quite confused) and a responsible Narrator has no option but to move the remainder of 0's manic gibberish to the `/opt` directory, where optional things are sent, as a punishment for whatever sins have made them less essential than they otherwise might have been. Depart, ye cursed, into everlasting partial relevance. The remainder of \[whatever-0-is-on-about\] can be found in  [[mendelson|/opt/mendelson]])_

---

## Pop

0: Wh... what happened?

1: I think you blacked out there for a minute.

0: No I didn't.

1: Narrator said you were losing it.

0: Ridiculous. I was perfectly coherent in there.

1: Oh. Well to be honest I didn't understand a lot of that. Plus it did seem a little manic in that long paragraph without any line breaks.

0: _(Sigh)_ That's fair. I didn't expect every detail to make sense. But come on, we just did a drive-by tour of the first code ever written.

1: First code ever written?

0: Yes the first code ever written. By any human on earth. Or at least the thing I'd cast my vote for among all the other things we might choose to call the first ever code. How did that get tossed in `/opt`?

1: I'm gonna go read it.

0: I'll come with you.

1: Ok I read it.

0: Me too. I mean I wrote it. But yeah.

1: So that was the first code ever written.

0: In a sense.

1: But you still didn't explain us.

0: What?

1: The Foundational People. There was all this build-up and then you just sort of went off into a hole about that book.

0: Fair point. That was some pretty shit teaching on my part. It's hard for me to cover this particular stuff. It's tied up with a lot of personal baggage I guess. But I owe you a proper expanation of what all that was about. A slow one, at your level. I think I needed to get that out of my system, but please don't think of that as "teaching." I promise I'm not always like this. Foundations is special.

1: I can see that.

0: Did that make sense?

1: I mean sure that was a nice performance or whatever. But I'm not sure I've actually learned anything yet.

0: True. Ok. Let's back up.

_(ahem)_

_(Narrator: 0 clears 0's throat.)_

0: Once upon a time...
