
The life stories of a remarkably large number of logicians contains a section where they end up in a mental hospital or are otherwise described as having sufficiently serious mental problems to require institutionalization. Examples:

1. Cantor. Mania and depression. In and out of institutions. Died in a sanatorium.
2. Gottlob Frege. Depression following the paradox letter from Russell. Legend has it that after receiving the infamous letter from Bertrand Russell, Frege had a mental breakdown and had to be hospitalized.
3. Moses Schönfinkel. Unspecified mental illness. Said to have disappeared after inventing combinatory logic.
4. Kurt Gödel. Paranoia, possibly schizophrenia. Life long hypochondriac.
5. Alan Turing. Seen as mentally ill for being gay. Doesn't exactly count, but did at the time.
6. Emil Post: Manic depression. Ordered by his doctor to spend at most three hours a day on research in order to avoid manic attacks. Died in April 1954 of a heart attack following electroshock treatment for depression.
7. Walter Pitts: Taught himself logic and mathematics as a child and became a proficient reader in several languages, including Greek and Latin. Spent three days in a library at the age of 12, reading Principia Mathematica and sent a letter to Bertrand Russell pointing out what he considered serious problems with the first half of the first volume. Russell invited him to study at Cambridge University at age 12. Described as an eccentric, refusing to allow his name to be made publicly available. He continued to refuse all offers of advanced degrees or positions of authority at MIT, in part as he would have to sign his name. Pitts declined, but decided to become a logician anyway. At age 15 he left home to study. Regexes were invented when Kleene wrote a paper about one of Pitts' papers, and Ken Thompson pulled the core of the definition from Kleene and generalized it. Pitts died in 1969 of bleeding esophageal varices, a condition usually associated with cirrhosis and alcoholism.
