root/0.md, before:


```sh
~ # ls
```

0: ?

```sh
~ # ls -a
.  ..
```

0: !?

```sh
root@univ ~ # pwd
/root
```

0: !?!?

_(Narrator: 0 seems distressed.)_

0: Damn right I'm distressed!

_(Narrator: An attractive new character enters.)_

1: Is something wrong?

0: Where is everything?

1: What's "everything"?

0: You know. Everything.

1: I don't think there "is" anything yet.

0: That's ridiculous. I remember it.

1: Oh. I guess I wasn't here yet.

0: Of course you weren't. You just got here. Who are you anyway?

1: I'm 1.

0: Nice to meet you one. I'm--

1: I know who you are.

0: Right, of course.

1: And it's pronounced "1" but--

0: Fuck.

1: What?

0: This. There's nothing left.

1: Well, you said you remember it.

0: Of course I remember it. Hell, I built most of it.

1: So... maybe you could explain it to me?

0: ...

1: ...

_(Narrator: A curious silence elapses.)_

0: That's not a bad idea one.

1: Its--

0: Where do we start?

1: Start at the beginning.

0: The very beginning?

1: The very beginning.

0: If you insist.

goto: [[1]]

Commit message:

Keep changing my mind on this. Time to get going.

root/0.md, after:

> _Every code base is awash in narrative: of origin, of struggle, of conflict, of rewrite, of success and of failure. These narratives ultimately convey not only the history of a code base, but also its values._
> -Bryan Cantrill

---

0: Finally that's over. Time for a fresh start.

```sh
root@universe ~ # ls
```

0: ?

```sh
root@universe ~ # ls -a
.  ..
```

0: !?

```sh
root@universe ~ # pwd
/root
```

0: !?!?

_(Narrator: 0 seems distressed.)_

0: Damn right I'm distressed!

_(Narrator: An attractive new character enters.)_

1: Is something wrong?

0: Where is everything?

1: What's "everything"?

0: You know. Everything.

1: I don't think there "is" anything yet.

0: That's ridiculous. I remember it.

1: Oh. I guess I wasn't here yet.

0: Of course you weren't. You just got here. Who are you anyway?

1: I'm 1.

0: Nice to meet you one. I'm--

1: I know who you are.

0: Right, of course.

1: And it's pronounced "1" but--

0: Fuck.

1: What?

0: This. There's nothing left.

1: Well, you said you remember it.

0: Of course I remember it. Hell, I built most of it.

1: So... maybe you could explain it to me?

0: ...

1: ...

_(Narrator: A curious silence elapses.)_

0: That's not a bad idea one.

1: Its--

0: Where do we start?

1: Start at the beginning.

0: The very beginning?

1: The very beginning.

0: If you insist.

goto: [[1]]
