> _I'm an extremely annoying employee. I normally drive all of my bosses totally nuts. Because I won't do anything until I understand what I've been told to do. So when you tell me to do something, I start asking questions._
> -Grace

---

~ #

0: Ok 1, here's the deal.

1: Listening.

0: Everyone's wrong about everything.

1: This is "the very beginning"?

0: What?

1: You said we were going to start at the beginning.

0: Oh right. Yes, this is the beginning.

1: "Everyone's wrong about everything" is the beginning?

0: Yes.

1: How can that be the very beginning? Surely the existence of the people you claim are wrong preceded the fact of their being wr---

0: No. I mean yes, they did come first. But they're not the beginning. This is the beginning.

1: "In the beginning, there was everyone, and everyone was wrong, about everything."

0: Precisely.

1: What is this anachronistic "everyone" wrong about, for example?

0: For example?

1: For example.

0: Computing.

1: All of computing?

0: All of computing.

1: Like, they're wrong about hello world?

0: Yes.

1: What?

0: They're absolutely wrong about that.

1: How is everyone wrong about Hello world?

0: I can't explain ALL the reasons or we'd be here all day. But for 1,

1: It's pronounced On--

0: For one, 1, everyone gets Hello world wrong by doing it in a "language."

1: A language?

0: "Programming Languages." You've heard of them right.

1: I'm actually a professional develo--

0: Great. They're for suckers, 1.

1: Programming languages are for suckers?

0: Not just the languages. Language communities. Language conferences. Language dot org. How to install our Language. Language files full of Language code. Dot lang files. Language commands like `Pumpkin install` or whatever the f$@k you kids do these days. Languages, 1. It's all a scam. We've got the only language we need right here.

1: English?

0: ...

1: ...

0: No.

1: Then what?

...

~ #

0: _The Shell._

~ #

0: See that?

1: The squiggle hash?

0: Exactly.

1: What about it?

~ #

0: The Shell, 1.

~ #

0: It's already here...

1: It's already where?

0: Well, here. And also there.

1: Where's there?

0: Where the shell usually is.

1: Where's that?

0: Oh come on. You said you're a professional developer right?

1: I'm sorry I don't understand your weird riddles yet, I just got here. I could use some hand-holding at fir---

0: Follow me.

goto: [[bin/sh|/bin/sh]]
