opt/genesis.md, before:


1: Ok, what happened after Cantor?

0: Well we brushed up against it in [[numbers|/opt/numbers]]. Remember that quote that went like this?

> In 1911... Cantor attended \[a thing\], hoping to meet \[some guy\], whose newly published \[book that everyone cites but no one actually reads\] repeatedly cited Cantor's work, but the encounter did not come about.
> 
> -The Dynamic Read-Writable Free Encyclopedic Repository of the Modern State of Human Knowledge

1: Yeah you said to remember his name but I forgot. Who's \[some guy\]?

0: He's the guy who segfaulted mathematics.

1: Segfaulted mathematics?!

0: Ok well not quite. More like he got root on the universe.

1: _Got ROOT on the UNIVERSE?!_

0: Ok that's not quite right either. His name was Bertrand Russell.

1: I think I've heard of him before. What did he do?

0: Well using Cantor's style of set theory, he discovered something called "Russell's Paradox."

1: Ok I've definitely heard of Russell's Paradox before. Remind me of what it is?

0: No.

1: What do you mean "No"?

0: Russell's paradox is one of those things like Gödel and incompleteness. Every damn boring uncreative book under the sun feels the need to talk about these things for some reason. It's tiresome.

1: Aren't you sort of... contributing to that?

0: Yes. Which is why I won't tell you what Russell's Paradox is. Go look it up. We're not in that kind of book.

1: I'm not convinced.

0: The point is that this guy named Bert (who Georg wanted to meet but didn't) found a security vulnerability in standard mathematical reasoning.

1: What was the vulnerability?

0: It boils down to the idea that if you can define a thing then it exists.

1: That's insane. Why would anyone believe that if they can define something that means it exists?

0: It's standard mathematical practice.

1: WHAT?!

0: They call it "Comprehension."

1: The more you talk about mathematics the more suspicious I am of it.

0: Well good, but my point here isn't to criticize the field. It's dishonorable to kick a field while it's down. And if there was ever a time when mathematics was "down," it's when Russell found his paradox and mathematicians started worrying they might have to abandon comprehension. Comprehension is their bread and butter.

1: What's comprehension? Like technically. Give details. I don't actually believe mathematicians were running around saying "If you can define it, then it exists." There's no way. That's not how they talk.

0: You're right. They don't tend to use those words. But that's what comprehension is. Usually when it happens, it sounds more like this:

_Consider the following set:_

$$S = \{ \; x \; | \; p(x) \; \}$$


---

TODO: Later in this file.

- "So in the beginning, everyone realized they might be wrong about everything."

Commit message:

Add todo item in /opt/genesis about comprehension.

opt/genesis.md, after:


1: Ok, what happened after Cantor?

0: Well we brushed up against it in [[numbers|/opt/numbers]]. Remember that quote that went like this?

> In 1911... Cantor attended \[a thing\], hoping to meet \[some guy\], whose newly published \[book that everyone cites but no one actually reads\] repeatedly cited Cantor's work, but the encounter did not come about.
> 
> -The Dynamic Read-Writable Free Encyclopedic Repository of the Modern State of Human Knowledge

1: Yeah you said to remember his name but I forgot. Who's \[some guy\]?

0: He's the guy who segfaulted mathematics.

1: Segfaulted mathematics?!

0: Ok well not quite. More like he got root on the universe.

1: _Got ROOT on the UNIVERSE?!_

0: Ok that's not quite right either. His name was Bertrand Russell.

1: I think I've heard of him before. What did he do?

0: Well using Cantor's style of set theory, he discovered something called "Russell's Paradox."

1: Ok I've definitely heard of Russell's Paradox before. Remind me of what it is?

0: No.

1: What do you mean "No"?

0: Russell's paradox is one of those things like Gödel and incompleteness. Every damn boring uncreative book under the sun feels the need to talk about these things for some reason. It's tiresome.

1: Aren't you sort of... contributing to that?

0: Yes. Which is why I won't tell you what Russell's Paradox is. Go look it up. We're not in that kind of book.

1: I'm not convinced.

0: The point is that this guy named Bert (who Georg wanted to meet but didn't) found a security vulnerability in standard mathematical reasoning.

1: What was the vulnerability?

0: It boils down to the idea that if you can define a thing then it exists.

1: That's insane. Why would anyone believe that if they can define something that means it exists?

0: It's standard mathematical practice.

1: WHAT?!

0: They call it "Comprehension."

1: The more you talk about mathematics the more suspicious I am of it.

0: Well good, but my point here isn't to criticize the field. It's dishonorable to kick a field while it's down. And if there was ever a time when mathematics was "down," it's when Russell found his paradox and mathematicians started worrying they might have to abandon comprehension. Comprehension is their bread and butter.

1: What's comprehension? Like technically. Give details. I don't actually believe mathematicians were running around saying "If you can define it, then it exists." There's no way. That's not how they talk.

0: You're right. They don't tend to use those words. But that's what comprehension is. Usually when it happens, it sounds more like this:

_Consider the following set:_

$$S = \{ \; x \; | \; p(x) \; \}$$


---

TODO: Later in this file.

- On comprehension: It's the logos principle. In the beginning was the word. Every mathematician believes that words are what creates things. At least mathematical things. In fact the idea that for something to exist you have to "construct" it is widely regarded with suspicion in standard mathematics. There's a whole group called the "constructivists" that's entirely defined by the fact that they're weirdos who believe \[that\].

- "So in the beginning, everyone realized they might be wrong about everything."
