---
cssclasses:
  - large-text
  - font-serif
---

## (4,1): Goᴅᴇʟ

¹ This is the story of Göᴅᴇʟ

² who is also called /dev/zero.

³ Göᴅᴇʟ was rude[^1] and rarely spoke, except to ask "why?"

⁴ For this reason his parents named him Herr Warum.[^2]

⁵ When Göᴅᴇʟ was grown he left Brünn[^3]

⁶ and went to Vienna, and he stayed there.

⁷ And Göᴅᴇʟ was skilled with the fairer sex,

⁸ often coming to them and going out together and in again.[^4]

⁹ And when Göᴅᴇʟ was 22 years old he was married.

¹⁰ And his wife was named Adele and she was 29 years old.

¹¹ And Göᴅᴇʟ's family was displeased

¹² because Adele had been working as a dancer

¹³ dancing for gentle men in the evenings at a club of the evenings[^5]

¹⁴ whose name was called Der Nachtfalter

¹⁵ which means Moth of the Night.

¹⁶ And Göᴅᴇʟ and Adele met there and were married.

¹⁷ And his parents were displeased

¹⁸ because she was seven years his senior.

¹⁹ And Göᴅᴇʟ said to Adele

²⁰ Let us leave the land of my birth[^6] and go to the Town of Princes

²¹ Where there is a Cathedral[^7] noble and ready[^8]

²² from which a great quantity of Words[^9] are made known.[^10]

²³ And Adele and Göᴅᴇʟ arrived.

²⁴ And the Noble[^11] of the Cathedral said to Göᴅᴇʟ

>²⁵ A Large man toils under me, whose name is called Small,
>
>²⁶ And the work of this zealot[^12] has led me to a situation[^13]
>
>²⁷ In which I believe, we are not far from being able, at last to
>
>²⁸ bring an end to[^14]
>
>²⁹ the immaculate[^15] conception[^16]
>
>³⁰ of the Creation[^17] Stone[^18].

³¹ And Göᴅᴇʟ turned to the man whose name was Small[^19]

³² And Göᴅᴇʟ saw that he was Large[^20]

³³ And the man began to [[lost+found/4/2|speak]].


---

From: The Book of Gödel.
Translated from the original source text by the
Society of Extremely Accurate Translators©®™[^21]


[^1]: "Curt", in the original text, meaning "using or expressed in few words, in a way perceived as rude."

[^2]: German for "Mr Why."

[^3]: Now Brno, Czech Republic.

[^4]: Lit. "over and over" in the Orig. Text.

[^5]: O.T. has "Night club".

[^6]: Cf. Gen 12:1 footnote 2 in Richard Elliott Friedman, _Commentary on the Torah: With a New English Translation and the Hebrew Text_ (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 2001)  (hereafter **_ComeT_**). Hebrew text cited according to Friedman’s edition; verse numbering follows the Masoretic tradition unless explicitly divergent. Any anomalies in transliteration are my own and should not be imputed to Friedman, his editor(s), or HarperSanFrancisco.

[^7]: The term "Cathedral" here is used to avoid a possible misunderstanding with the word "Church", since the latter is also the name of a logician later in the same story with whom Godel collaborates. In the original text, the same word is used for both.

[^8]: O.T. has here an obscure term of Spanish and Portuguese origin, derived from the Visigothic name "Adalfuns," which combines the elements "adal" meaning "noble" and "funs" meaning "ready" or "eager," thus signifying "noble and ready" or "eager for nobility." Lit. "Alonzo" in O.T.

[^9]: Lit. "logic", from late Middle English: via Old French _logique_ and late Latin _logica_ from Greek _logikē (tekhnē)_ ‘(art) of reason’, from _logos_ 'word, reason,' often transcribed as Word or The Word in relig. contexts.

[^10]: Past of inf. form "To make known." From Middle English (in the sense 'make generally known'): from the stem of Old French _puplier_, from Latin _publicare_ 'make public', from _publicus_. The O.T. has "published."

[^11]: Cf. n. [^8], supra. This is likely a distinct meaning of the same term discussed there. The O.T. has the same term in both places.

[^12]: From the Latin word studens, meaning "eager" or "zealous," and the verb studere, meaning "to be eager" or "to study". O.T. has "student."

[^13]: From Greek _θέσις_ "a proposition," also "downbeat" (in music), originally "a setting down, a placing, an arranging; position, situation." O.T. has "thesis."

[^14]: Late Middle English (also in the sense ‘bring to an end’): from Old French _definer_, from a variant of Latin _definire_, from _de-_ (expressing completion) + _finire_ ‘finish’ (from _finis_ ‘end’). Cf. "define" in the original.

[^15]: From late 15th century (originally used of sight, in the sense 'accurate, unerring, perfect, flawless'): from medieval Latin _intuitivus_, from Latin _intueri_ (see _intuit_). O.T. has "intuitive" here.

[^16]: From the Latin conceptus, a noun meaning "a draft" or "something conceived", in verbal formation the past participle of the Latin verb _concipere_, which means "to take in and hold" or "to become pregnant". Cf. O.T.'s use of "concept" here, meaning presumably "that which is conceived."

[^17]: From the Latin _effectīvus_, meaning "creative, productive, or effective", and imported into Middle English between 1300 and 1400 AD. The earliest extant versions of the source text have "effective" or "effectively" here, which usage appears to be archaic and no longer in use.

[^18]: Lit. "calculable" in O.T., from Late Middle English: from late Latin calculat- 'counted', from the verb calculare, from calculus 'a small pebble (as used on an abacus)'. Translated "stone" to evoke the emotional tone likely present in the original, since this object and the fellowship's aims of "bringing \[it\] to an end" are the organizing theme of the story that follows.

[^19]: O.T. has "Kleene", from the German "Klein," meaning "Small." From Middle Low German _kleine_, from Old Saxon _klēni_, from Proto-West Germanic \*klainī. Cognate to German and Dutch _klein_, English _clean_. See also _kleen_ (masculine **kleene**, feminine kleen), meaning "little, small in size" (e.g. _Sie hon zweu **kleene** hunn._ ― They have two little dogs.) or "short, small in height" (e.g., _Sie is en **kleene** Fraa._ ― She's a short woman). Usage in O.T. possibly a Teutonic[^22] in-joke between the Church Noble and the native German-speaking Göᴅᴇʟ whose meaning has since been lost to history.

[^20]: Lit. "tall." Caps for parallelism w. "Small" in prev. line.

[^21]: Or: SEAT.©®™

[^22]: Teutonic. (adj.)
		1. (dated or offensive): Having qualities that are regarded as typical of German people.
		2. (archaic): Relating to the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family.
		
		Citation: The Translator, copy/paste from The Dictionary of the Standard Modern Dialect of Distributed Colloquial Vernacular, 20XY.
