lost+found/4/3.md, before:

## (4,3): Gödel's Code


![[godel-the-programmer-03.jpg]]
-Martin Davis

![[godel-1931-paper-00.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-01.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-02.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-03.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-04.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-05.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-06.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-07.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-08.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-09.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-10.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-11.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-12.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-13.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-14.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-15.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-16.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-17.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-18.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-19.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-20.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-21.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-22.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-23.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-24.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-25.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-26.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-27.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-28.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-29.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-30.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-31.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-32.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-33.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-34.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-35.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-36.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-37.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-38.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-39.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-40.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-41.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-42.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-43.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-44.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-45.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-46.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-47.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-48.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-49.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-50.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-51.jpg]]

goto: [[lost+found/4/4|/lost+found/4/4]]

Commit message:

Add Martin Davis quote to Godel section.

lost+found/4/3.md, after:

## (4,3): Gödel's Code

> _In the year 1930, the realization of an actual physical device that could function as a general-purpose information-processing programmable computer was still decades in the future. Yet someone knowledgeable about modern programming languages today looking at Gödel’s paper on undecidability written that year will see a sequence of 45 numbered formulas that looks very much like a computer program._
> -Martin Davis


![[godel-1931-paper-00.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-01.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-03.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-04.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-05.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-06.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-07.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-08.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-09.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-10.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-11.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-12.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-13.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-14.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-15.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-16.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-17.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-18.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-19.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-20.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-21.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-22.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-23.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-24.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-25.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-26.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-27.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-28.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-29.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-30.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-31.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-32.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-33.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-34.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-35.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-36.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-37.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-38.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-39.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-40.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-41.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-42.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-43.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-44.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-45.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-46.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-47.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-48.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-49.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-50.jpg]]


![[godel-1931-paper-51.jpg]]

goto: [[lost+found/4/4|/lost+found/4/4]]
