---
cssclasses:
  - large-text
  - font-serif
---

**1977**

In July Mrs. G had a major operation and was hospitalized until a few days before Christmas.

This was very hard on G.

For instance, he complained about being left alone, but when the nurses came to the house, he would not open the door.

Oskar Morgenstern (1902-1977) died on 26 July.

G telephoned him some days later and was informed of the bad news by Mrs. Morgenstern.

G said nothing in reply, undoubtedly because he was too upset even to express his sympathy.

Paul Bernays (1888-1977) died in September.

Probably G never knew that Bernays had died.

From 17 September to 16 November I was away.

I called G before my departure and after my return.

I visited him in his house on 17 December, exactly four weeks before his death.

His mind remained nimble and he did not appear very sick. He said,

> _"I have lost the faculty for making positive decisions. I can only make negative decisions."_

A day or two later Mrs. G came home and persuaded G to enter the Princeton Hospital (on 29 December, with the help of H. Whitney).

**1978**

I telephoned him on 11 January.

He was polite but sounded remote.

It was said that G's weight was down to sixty-five pounds before his death and that, toward the end, his paranoia conformed to a classic syndrome: fear of food poisoning leading to self-starvation. (He was 5'6".)

Reportedly he died in the fetal position.

This was Saturday, 14 January, at one in the afternoon.

According to the death certificate, on file in the Mercer County courthouse (Trenton, New Jersey), G died of "Malnutrition and inanition" caused by "personality disturbance."

H. Whitney telephoned me in the early morning of 16 January, and in the afternoon I visited Mrs. G, who was talking with a minister.

There were only very few people at the private funeral on 19 January;

I recognized only Mrs. G, Mrs. Morse, and Mrs. Morgenstern.

G is buried beside his wife and his mother-in-law in the Princeton Cemetery.

---

The text above was taken verbatim from the book _Reflections on Kurt Gödel_, by Hao Wang. The original text of Sudocode contains the above text as is, without attribution.

---

goto: [[lost+found/5/1|5/1]]
