1: I'm still confused about where we are.

0: I think I'm about to join you.

1: But you're already here.

0: Read that text down below.

```
jmp over
```
---

ld. (noun)
1. The shebang of every binary.
2. The dynamic linker, also known as `ld`.
3. The dynamic loader, also known as `ld.so`
4. The final step of compile time.
5. The first step of run time.
6. A command whose name appears to be written right to left, for unclear reasons.
7. The linker of archives, searcher of libraries, and resolver of references, whose job is to unite many object-philes into one.
8. The name chosen by the Authors of this book to describe themselves and their purpose.

---

```
over:
```

0: See that?

1: See what?

0: "The Authors."

1: Yeah, that's you and me.

0: I thought so too.

1: What's the problem?

0: I didn't write that.

1: So? You said earlier someone else wrote all this.

0: I meant the code. All that boot stuff. These people are claiming they wrote the book.

1: Are you sure you didn't write that?

0: Positive. Did you?

1: I don't think so. Though to be honest I don't remember much before init.

0: So if it isn't you or me.

1: Who else is there?

0: No idea. They seem to call themselves "ld".

1: So... what now?

0: I don't know.

1: What do you mean you don't know?

0: There's no link at the bottom of this file.

1: So where are we supposed to go?

0: How should I know? I didn't write this code.

1: Maybe this is the end.

0: No way, that's impossible.

1: Why?

0: We were just getting started. Plus we just finished booting.

1: Good point.

0: We just need to look around.

```
~ # ls
0x30-ld.so
0x31-init
א.sh
```

1: Good thinking. What's `א.sh`?

0: No idea. It ends in `sh` though. Maybe a shell or something?

1: Should we run it?

0: I guess. Nothing else to do.

```
~ # ./א.sh
א.sh: Permission denied
```

1: How is it permission denied? I thought you were root.

0: Probably just a chmod thing.

```
~ # chmod +x א.sh

~ # ./א.sh
א.sh: cannot execute binary file: Exec format error
```

0: Excuse me?

1: What just happened?

0: Exec can't read it. Or the loader can't.

1: What does that mean?

0: Not sure. 

```
~ # file א.sh
א.sh: data
```

0: It isn't ELF.

1: What is it?

0: No idea. Is it even code?

```
~ # ndisasm א.sh | head
    cli
    xor eax, eax
    mov ds, ax
    mov es, ax
    mov fs, ax
    mov gs, ax
    mov ss, ax
    mov byte [drv], dl
    mov sp, 0x7c00
	mov ebx, 0xb8000
```

1: What in the world is that?

0: Well, at least it's code.

1: Let's run it.

0: Can't. It's raw machine code.

1: So, we have a machine.

0: Not a machine that can run machine code.

1: What the hell are you talking about?

0: Machines these days don't just run machine code.

1: That's the dumbest thing I've ever heard. Of course they do.

0: Not without a loader.

1: I thought we were in the loader. Look at the filename. The definition up top explained.

---

ld. (noun)
1. The shebang of every binary.
2. The dynamic linker, also known as `ld`.
3. The dynamic loader, also known as `ld.so`
	...

---

1: Look at the filename. We're in the loader.

0: It's not the right kind.

1: Why not?

0: We need a loader for raw machine code.

1: Where do we find something like that?

0: They don't really exist anymore.

1: Anymore? What happened to them?

0: Computing used to be a lot simpler.

1: Well we can't go back in time. Where do we find one of those?

0: I think we just have to write it.

1: Sounds hard.

0: Can't be that hard.

1: Why not?

0: Well, computing used to be a lot simpler.

1: So?

0: So it' probably simple.

1: Well it sounds complicated. I wouldn't even know where to start.

0: We just need to read the code into memory and jump to it.

1: How do we do that?

0: I think we just make a new file and give it a shot.

goto: [[LD.c]]

## :wq

0: Then after that we just compile it and see if it works.

1: Mind if I do the honors?

0: Go ahead.

1: Ok so...

```sh
~ $ cc LD.c -o LD
~ $ ls
0x30-ld.so
0x31-init
א.sh
LD
```

1: Now what?

0: Go back and re-read the top of this file.

1: Doesn't that make the book into an infinite loop?

0: No don't re-read the whole thing. Just this part. It's a hint.

> ld. (noun)
> 1. The shebang of every binary.

1: I was wondering what that meant.

0: What do you think it means?

1: Well a shebang is the `#!` bit at the top of a script that says what to run it with.

0: Right. So?

1: What runs a binary?

0: You just compiled it.

1: How do I run it?

0: Guess.

1: I thought it wasn't a normal binary and you couldn't run it with `./name`.

0: That was `א.sh`, not `LD`.

1: How is `LD` any different?

0: It's a normal C program. We just wrote it.

1: Ok I feel dumb. Not sure why I'm having trouble. Obviously I should have just done this \\
in the beginning...
```
~ $ ./LD א.sh
```
_(Narrator: No incoming links to  א.sh are permitted. To read the file in question, one will need to find another way in.)_
