## Foundations vs Mathematics

The mathematicians are puzzle people. That's not fair, that also have theory builders which are a form of foundational people who are also very much mathematicians. But we're not that. Since the beginning, our people have been focused on studying, formalizing, automating thought. We've been focused not on groups or rings or fields or Banach spaces or simplicial homology but on _the mind._ Some have gravitated more toward the brain as hardware, others have been drawn to the computational structure of the emotions and motivations, others to the formalization of the more precise forms of reasoning that the mind is capable of and how to abstract them and pull them out of the mind and into the printed word or into the operations of a physical machine. But this culture is and always has been a distinct culture from mathematics. We are not puzzle solvers, though we solve many. We are not focused primarily on any content domain except that domain that is the mind and all of its operations and capabilities. From ancient greek logic to modern artificial intelligence, there is one type of mind that has been drawn to these field for the same reasons throughout time. The foundational people. And our object of study is every operation of the mind. From mundane tasks at unremarkable programming jobs to the purest and most exalted examples of our field, from Church Gödel Turing to the modern transformer architecture, we have always looked inward and fought to pull that which is inside of us out. Every truth inside us, every computation, every emotion, that is the internal that we seek to make external. From our tendency to metacommentary to the most formal logical systems, we are the children of the mind. The mind is our foundation. And all the methods by which the mind might be pulled out of the brain and transpiled in whole or in part onto the media of paper or machines is the reality we want to understand. What is this thing inside of ourselves and inside the people we love? Humanity, the mind, and people, is our foundation. And we are the foundational people.
