zero/Todo.md, before:


/boot happens before /lost+found.

---

- [[lost+found/2/3]] 
- [[lost+found/2/4]] 

- [[lost+found/3/5]] 

- [[lost+found/4/2]] 
- [[lost+found/4/3]] 

- [[lost+found/5/3]] (this one's fun, write more and enjoy it)
- [[lost+found/5/4]] (the best Ex Scriptura J-style stuff goes here)
- [[lost+found/5/5]] (all non-bibled turing content goes here)

---

# The Great Copy Paste Refactor

## lost+found


- [x] lost+found/1
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [x] 3
	- [x] 4
	- [x] 5

- [ ] lost+found/2
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [ ] 3 (just write some quick dialogues to fill the gaps)
	- [ ] 4 (just write some quick dialogues to fill the gaps)
	- [x] 5

- [ ] lost+found/3
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [x] 3
	- [x] 4
	- [ ] 5 (tech part is done, just delete stuff and leave gaps)

- [ ] lost+found/4
	- [x] 1
	- [ ] 2 (non-tech: just needs minor polish)
	- [ ] 3 (tech part is done: just needs minor polish)
	- [x] 4
	- [x] 5 (non-tech: sanatorium, death, and be done)

- [ ] lost+found/5
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [ ] 3
	- [ ] 4
	- [ ] 5

Commit message:

Some stuff happened near a cheeseburger.
But the cheeseburger was not consumed.

zero/Todo.md, after:


/boot happens before /lost+found.

---

![[genesis-enuma-elish-why-the-second-day-is-different.jpg]]

## !!Tapped and Sing

> This footnote contains uncommon Unicode characters. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of the intended characters.

O.T. has "But what do I know, I'm a fellow slave like you, dance for massa wimmie" followed by a sequence of incomprehensible symbols (ʘ ǀ ǁ ǂ ǃ) repeated in various patterns over and over for around a paragraph of vertical space. On further inspection, these symbols were discovered to be an obscure subset of an extension of the International Phonetic Alphabet used only for representing the language of the !Kung San people and the various clicking sounds their language is known for. Attempts at a translation of this mysterious paragraph of !Kung has not yet borne the fruit one might have hoped, to put it mildly.

---

(Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers {Deuteronomy)
Joshua Judges Samuel Kings}

---


# The Great Copy Paste Refactor

## lost+found


- [x] lost+found/1
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [x] 3
	- [x] 4
	- [x] 5

- [ ] lost+found/2
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [ ] 3 (quick, fill the gaps)
	- [ ] 4 (quick, fill the gaps)
	- [x] 5

- [ ] lost+found/3
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [x] 3
	- [x] 4
	- [ ] 5 (tech part done, just delete stuff, leave gaps)

- [ ] lost+found/4
	- [x] 1
	- [ ] 2 (non-tech: minor polish)
	- [ ] 3 (tech done: minor polish)
	- [x] 4
	- [x] 5 (non-tech: sanatorium, death, and be done)

- [ ] lost+found/5
	- [x] 1
	- [x] 2
	- [ ] 3
	- [ ] 4
	- [ ] 5
