lost+found/We.md, before:

---

---
## In the beginning

### The Source

1: Wait, doesn't basically every group call themselves "The Foundational People"?

0: I don't think so. What do you mean?

1: I don't want to derail the book. I'll explain in [[opt/names|/opt/names]].

0: Wow, I learned something new today. Anyways, where were we?

1: You said we're...

0: The Foundational People. Exactly.

1: So I said "Wait, doesn't basically every group call themselves The Foundational People"?

0: Well apparently so. But I didn't mean it like that.

1: Like what?

0: I didn't mean we're "The Foundational People" as in "The best people." I meant our people trace our ancestry back to, well, the Foundations.

1: I'm gonna need an explanation of why this is different from the tribe thing.

0: I don't want to derail the book. I'll explain in [[lost+found/init/In the Beginning|the beginning]].

### The Sink

0: Sinking.

1: Sinking?

0: Mathematics was sinking. Something had to be done, and quick.

1: _(Reluctantly)_ What's the problem? These infinite numbers don't seem like that big of a deal. I mean sure they're weird, but infinity doesn't seem that scary to me, like how is this a threat to calculus or geometry exactly?

0: Because of what happened next.

1: What happened next?

0: Well soon after Cantor rocked the boat, someone else tipped it over completely.

1: Completely?

0: Completely. Mathematics always seemed like solid ground. Somewhere safe. Soon after Cantor, it seemed like everything we might be washed away in a flood of paradoxes.

1: When was this?

0: The beginning.

1: The beginning of what?

0: Of the story of our People.

1: WE HAVEN'T EVEN GOT TO THE BEGINNING YET?!

0: Not quite. Head over to this file with me.

1: Can't we just stay here? I'm feeling a bit sea sick from all this context switchi---

0: Stop whining and get in. Things are about to get good.

goto: [[lost+found/fini/In the Beginning|the beginning]].

## Names

1: Ow, f\*ck sh\*t g\*d d\*mn I think I pulled a muscle that time. You need to warn me before this pop b\*\*eshit zero, it's jarring to get verbally yanked around all the time so unless I get a day off to rest after all this you need to give a bit a heads up when we---

0: Sorry I wasn't listening. That was a lot of stars though so thanks for the words, I'm sure whatever it was was good.

1: Why are you like this?

0: Because we've got work to do. Things to cover. We can't stay here. There's problems to solve. It's 1900 and David Hilbert just dropped his new list.

1: I'm having trouble remembering all these name---

0: No worries, there are more coming up but they're basically all the same?

1: _(Slightly seasick)_ Wha---

0: Get in, I'll explain.

goto: [[lost+found/init/Names|Names]]

## And he called

1: Was it Church?

0: You know more than I give you credit for sometimes.

1: How else do you think I got accepted to work with you?

0: Who do you think accepted you? You still have a lot to learn.

1: Look I didn't realize we'd be talking about math or bibles or whatever but---

0: I think we're past the math for good now.

1: I don't believe you.

0: Ok there's a bit more, but it'll start feeling more like computing from here on.

1: Promise?

0: Promise. Then we'll do so much computing you'll get sick of that too.

1: One can only hope.

0: Good one!

1: That wasn't supposed to be a pun.

0: Well it was. Semantics is tricky.

1: How so?

0: Naming things, for one.

1: How is naming things tricky?

0: Follow me.

call: [[And He Called]]

## Numbers


## The second law

Commit message:

Assorted changes while feeling sick

lost+found/We.md, after:

---

---
## In the beginning

### The Logos

1: Wait, doesn't basically every group call themselves "The Foundational People"?

0: I don't think so. What do you mean?

1: I don't want to derail the book. I'll explain in [[opt/names|/opt/names]].

### The Source

0: Wow, I learned something new today. Anyways, where were we?

1: You said we're...

0: The Foundational People. Exactly.

1: So I said "Wait, doesn't basically every group call themselves The Foundational People"?

0: Well apparently so. But I didn't mean it like that.

1: Like what?

0: I didn't mean we're "The Foundational People" as in "The best people." I meant our people trace our ancestry back to, well, the Foundations.

1: I'm gonna need an explanation of why this is different from the tribe thing.

0: I don't want to derail the book. I'll explain in [[lost+found/init/In the Beginning|the beginning]].

### The Sink

0: Sinking.

1: Sinking?

0: Mathematics was sinking. Something had to be done, and quick.

1: _(Reluctantly)_ What's the problem? These infinite numbers don't seem like that big of a deal. I mean sure they're weird, but infinity doesn't seem that scary to me, like how is this a threat to calculus or geometry exactly?

0: Because of what happened next.

1: What happened next?

0: Well soon after Cantor rocked the boat, someone else tipped it over completely.

1: Completely?

0: Completely. Mathematics always seemed like solid ground. Somewhere safe. Soon after Cantor, it seemed like everything we might be washed away in a great flood of paradoxes.

1: When was this?

0: The beginning.

1: The beginning of what?

0: Of the story of our People.

1: WE HAVEN'T EVEN GOT TO THE BEGINNING YET?!

0: Not quite. Head over to this file with me.

1: Can't we just stay here? I'm feeling a bit sea sick from all this context switchi---

0: Stop whining and get in. Things are about to get good. This story's for us, by us. For two, by two. Wouldn't be the same to just tell it to myself. Quit complaining and follow me.

1: _(Evincing nau{tical,sea}. See: sick)_

goto: [[lost+found/fini/In the Beginning|the beginning]].

## Names

1: Ow, f\*ck sh\*t g\*d d\*mn I think I pulled a muscle that time. You need to warn me before this pop b\*\*eshit zero, it's jarring to get verbally yanked around all the time so unless I get a day off to rest after all this you need to give a bit a heads up when we---

0: Sorry I wasn't listening. That was a lot of stars though so thanks for the words, I'm sure whatever it was was good.

1: Why are you like this?

0: Because we've got work to do. Things to cover. We can't stay here. There's problems to solve. It's 1900 and David Hilbert just dropped his new list.

1: I'm having trouble remembering all these name---

0: No worries, there are more coming up but they're basically all the same?

1: _(Slightly seasick)_ Wha---

0: Get in, I'll explain.

goto: [[lost+found/init/Names|Names]]

## And he called

1: Was it Church?

0: You know more than I give you credit for sometimes.

1: How else do you think I got accepted to work with you?

0: Who do you think accepted you? You still have a lot to learn.

1: Look I didn't realize we'd be talking about math or bibles or whatever but---

0: I think we're past the math for good now.

1: I don't believe you.

0: Ok there's a bit more, but it'll start feeling more like computing from here on.

1: Promise?

0: Promise. Then we'll do so much computing you'll get sick of that too.

1: One can only hope.

0: Good one!

1: That wasn't supposed to be a pun.

0: Well it was. Semantics is tricky.

1: How so?

0: Naming things, for one.

1: How is naming things tricky?

0: Follow me.

call: [[And He Called]]

## Numbers


## The second law
