#headings-verbose #headings-with-quotes #images-false #genres-shell
## (1,1): In the Beginning

### Or: Theology & Paradise

> _Perfectionism is the voice of the oppressor, the enemy of the people. It will keep you cramped and insane your whole life, and it is the main obstacle between you and a shitty first draft._
> -Anne Lamott, Bird by Bird

### Or: Not worth publishing

> _There is no perfection, only beautiful versions of brokenness._
> -Shannon L. Alder
> 
### Or: In the beginning was the Word

> _How odd I can have all this inside me and to you it’s just words._
> -David Foster Wallace, The Pale King

### Or: Creation as Recreation

> _Writing is rewriting. Address this by the end of the conference and the drinks are on me._
> -Richard Elliot Friedman

### Or: Not suitable for kids

> _The first draft of anything is shit._
> -Ernest Hemingway

### Or: Bereshit

---

0: Right. Ok, let's start at the beginning.

1: Listening.

_(Narrator: 0 clears 0's throat.)_

0: Once upon a time, in the late 1800s, a guy named George segfaulted mathematics.

1: Segfaulted mathematics?!

0: Ok well not quite. More like he got root on the universe.

1: _Got ROOT on the UNIVERSE?!_

0: Ok that's not quite right either. His name was Georg Cantor.

---

> _I don't know what predominates in Cantor's theory, philosophy or theology, but I am sure there is no mathematics there._
> -Leopold Kronecker

---

1: Was he the first Foundational Person?

0: No no, he's not one of ours. Not to exclude him. He could have used a good hug and some proper friends, and I would have loved to know the guy. But in his heart, Cantor was a mathematician. He thought like a mathematician, and he wanted to be accepted by the mathematicians.

1: Why wasn't he accepted?

0: Well, he made the mistake of doing some mathematics.

1: What's wrong with that?

0: Well this mathematics was different. Or more accurately, it was the same. See what Cantor did was to use standard mathematical reasoning, the kind that was generally accepted by the mathematical community, to show that if you accept the standard types of definitions and proofs that are common in mathematics, then you're basically forced to accept that infinitely many different sizes of infinity "exist." There's a whole hierarchy of infinite "numbers" up above the normal numbers like $0, 1, ...$ etc. And if you believe in the familiar set of positive whole numbers, like if you agree that whole set is "a thing that exists," then it's pretty much impossible within normal mathematical reasoning to avoid being forced to admit that all the rest of these infinite numbers upstairs exist too.

1: Is that bad?

0: Well some people loved it. Like this guy who's quoted saying the following line in every book about this stuff.

> _No one shall expel us from the paradise that Cantor has created._
> -David Hilbert

0: Cantor himself wasn't sure the ideas were even worth publishing.

1: He thought the stuff that guy up above just called "paradise" wasn't even worth publishing?

0: Well _he_ thought it was worth publishing, but he wasn't sure other people would think so.

> _We can follow the ruminations of the 28-year-old Cantor in letters written in 1873 to Richard Dedekind, a young mathematician Cantor had met quite by chance the previous year while on vacation in Switzerland._

0: And in a sense he was right.

> _Cantor, who had recently been promoted to a professorship at Halle, wrote showing Dedekind that one can construct a one-to-one matching between the natural numbers and the more inclusive set of all positive fractions. He even showed that the same is true for the set of all algebraic numbers._

0: Whenever you invent a new field, a new genre, a new anything really -- usually most people aren't interested at all.

1: That's crazy. People always love new stuff.

> _In his letter, Cantor raised the question of the possibility of a one-to-one matching between the set of natural numbers and the set of all real numbers. Dedekind’s reply suggested that he believed the question to be of little interest._

0: They love _trendy_ new stuff.

1: What's the difference?

> _About a week later, in another letter, Cantor was able to prove to Dedekind the remarkable fact that the set of real numbers cannot be matched with the set of natural numbers in a one-to-one manner, that infinite sets come in at least two sizes._

0: By the time something's trendy, the creators are usually covered with at least a decade of scars from the long march before the trend.

> _Apparently, Cantor himself wasn’t even sure that this finding was worth publishing. He only submitted it for publication after his former teacher Karl Weierstrass encouraged him to do so._

0: During that period, the creators usually damn near lose their mind.

1: I'm skeptical. I think a lot of new things are recieved with more hype than skepticism, especially these days.

0: Again, that's the things you're aware of.

1: Are you saying my point is invalid because it's _about things I'm aware of?_

0: Yes.

1: _(Rolls eyes)_

0: The really new things are mostly unknown by everyone except the creators and a few close friends or family.

1: Aren't those people the _least_ likely to criticize stuff?

0: Far from it. Those closest friends and family tend to think the creators've got a screw loose for being interested in something that isn't even, like, real yet.

1: I guess that is a pretty odd behavior.

0: And whenever something isn't real yet, it's usually not trendy.

1: Usually?

0: Sure, there are plenty of trendy things that aren't exactly real yet. Think early AI, early quantum computing, anything we call vaporware and that ships way late.

1: How does a thing get trendy before it exists?

0: Dunno. I\'d guess it\'s usually because there\'s a large \
com{munit,pan}{y,ies}\ / financial interest  \
behind those things.

1: Oh ok I get your point now.

0: How so?

1: I mean I was disagreeing before b/c I was thinking about the \
com{munit,pan}y '&'c \
backed {h,t}ype \
of "new" stuff.

0: Oh absolutely. Totally different social physics there. The backing -- that is the fact of having a community or company behind an idea -- inherently sort of makes it less embarrassing to the folks working on those things.

1: Ok I'm on board now.

0: The creators I'm talking about have an entirely different experience. They're alone. In a void of their own making. Trying to pull something into existence out of nothingness, without a single iota of hype behind it yet. Because the result doesn't exist yet. They have to create it before they can even begin to explain it.

1: Sounds like programming.

0: Exactly like programming. It turns out Words don't reach far enough into the space of not-yet-created things to reliably transmit even basic information from mind to mind if the latter mind can't see and touch the described thing, or at very least see and hear a lot of hype and social hubbub about the unseen thing.

1: This is why non-technicals should never manage technicals btw.

0: And it turns out there's a scary-large fraction of folks in every field whose research interests and motivations are more or less histograms of the words and behaviors the high status members of said field say and do, respectively.

1: Where are we going with this by the way?

0: To set the stage for Cantor.

> _The revolutionary implications of what Cantor had done were hardly evident in the four-page paper._

0: See most academic types can't actually tell what they're interested in til they know if it's considered interesting.

> _The emphasis of the paper was not on the fact that infinite sets had been shown to come in more than one size,_

0: So the creators find themselves in this situation where anything genuinely new has to be sort of bullshitted-into-existence, not by lying, but by selling the reasons why you (the reader) might care about this-thing-which-we-know-people-arent-interested-in-because-people-generally-arent-capable-of-being-interested-in-stuff-they-dont-know-exists.

> _but rather that as a corollary, Cantor had obtained a new proof that there exist real numbers that are transcendental._
> 
> -Martin Davis, The Universal Computer

1: What was that bit at the end?

0: It was saying Cantor's paper didn't focus much on the stuff that it was actually about.

1: That sounds, like, definitionally impossible.

0: Not at all! Lots of things are _about_ stuff they don't claim to be about.

1: What on earth would make a person write like that?

0: Editors.

1: Oh.

0: Or taboos. Or social constraints. There's all sorts of reasons why writers have to bury stuff.

1: In mathematics though?

0: Absolutely. Once Georg's work on the infinite was published and started getting talked about more broadly, it was super polarizing.

1: How can mathematics be polarizing?

0: There were people who thought Georg was corrupting the youth.

1: C'mon, nobody would actually think infinity is "not suitable for kids."

0: I'm serious. Here's an example.

> _Kronecker, who headed mathematics at Berlin until his death in 1891, became increasingly uncomfortable with the prospect of having Cantor as a colleague, perceiving him as a "corrupter of youth" for teaching his ideas to a younger generation of mathematicians._
>
> -The Dynamic Read-Writable Free Encyclopedic Repository of the Modern State of Human Knowledge

1: That's a bit of an over-reaction don't you think?

0: Not at all. Georg was totally corrupting the youth.

1: That's ridiculous. How are infinite numbers corrupting the youth?

0: I'll explain, follow me.

goto: [[lost+found/1/2]]