mnt/sinai.md, before:

## 🌕

> _System now sleeping._
>
> _You are not expected to understand this._

---

_(Narrator: The scene:
Inside the /mnt directory
0 has a vision,
also known
in more modern language
as "a dream.")_

---

Authors:

The dream datatype,

![[mnt-sinai-01.png]]

in the context of the human operating system,

![[mnt-sinai-02.png]]

may be implemented as a sequence of images,

![[mnt-sinai-04.png]]

without commentary.

![[mnt-sinai-06.png]]

The images in a dream,

![[mnt-sinai-07.png]]

according to all known human sources,

![[mnt-sinai-14.png]]

simply present themselves,

![[mnt-sinai-15.png]]

one after another,

![[mnt-sinai-12.png]]

often with no discernible link between them.

![[mnt-sinai-13.png]]

The mind, when operating in a standard dream context,

![[mnt-sinai-16.png]]

supplies the rationale for the sequence of images thus encountered,

![[mnt-sinai-17.png]]

with this rationale being implemented in the currency of a feeling.

![[mnt-sinai-18.png]]

In other words, the images in a standard dream need have no relation to one another whatsoever.

![[mnt-sinai-19.png]]

What they do have, however, is a confident feeling,

![[mnt-sinai-22.png|200]]

in the mind of the viewer, that they are linked.

![[mnt-sinai-21.png]]

In other words, it would appear that the Authors of dreams,

![[mnt-sinai-23.png]]

rather than doing the hard work of actually constructing a coherent narrative,

![[mnt-sinai-24.png]]

simply cat a series of images one after another, into the mind,

![[mnt-sinai-26.png]]

and add a feeling on top that "all these images form a story."

![[mnt-sinai-27.png]]

Armed with that feeling, the viewer never questions the sequence.

![[mnt-sinai-34.png]]

And no matter how absurd is the sequence of images in a dream,

![[mnt-sinai-33.png]]

the dreamer finds each image to be entirely sensible,

![[mnt-sinai-35.png]]

almost inevitable,

![[mnt-sinai-36.png]]

in the context of the rest.

![[mnt-sinai-45.png]]

While any imaginable scene may be found in a dream,

![[mnt-sinai-46.png]]

one scene one never finds is skepticism of the genre itself.

![[mnt-sinai-47.png]]

The viewer never stops and says "Back up, that doesn't follow."

![[mnt-sinai-48.png]]

Or "That was a total digression."

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-01.jpg]]

From an Author's point of view,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-02.jpg]]

this is an extremely convenient fact.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-03.jpg]]

The Author of dreams need not be skilled

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-04.jpg]]

either in the choice of words,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-06.jpg]]

or in the art of telling stories.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-07.jpg]]

The Author need only provide the images.

![[mnt-sinai-30.png]]

Real or imaginary.

![[mnt-sinai-31.png]]

And trust that the genre itself will take care of the rest.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-14.jpg]]

While the viewer passively watches,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-15.jpg]]

and ideally gets some rest.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-16.jpg]]

That is the aim of sleep, after all.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-24.jpg]]

Anyways,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-23.jpg]]

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-17.jpg|300]]

that's enough from us for now.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-19.jpg]]

Get some rest.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-20.jpg|300]]

We'll let you fill in the rest.

![[mnt-sinai-54.png]]

Love always,

![[mnt-sinai-55.png]]

Sincerely,

-LD

[[lost+found/2/2|IRET]]

Commit message:

Add proto-sinaitic to /mnt/sinai

mnt/sinai.md, after:

## 🌕

> _System now sleeping._
>
> _You are not expected to understand this._

---

_(Narrator: The scene:
Inside the /mnt directory
0 has a vision,
also known
in more modern language
as "a dream.")_

---

Authors:

The dream datatype,

![[mnt-sinai-01.png]]

in the context of the human operating system,

![[mnt-sinai-02.png]]

may be implemented as a sequence of images,

![[mnt-sinai-04.png]]

without commentary.

![[mnt-sinai-06.png]]

The images in a dream,

![[mnt-sinai-07.png]]

according to all known human sources,

![[mnt-sinai-14.png]]

simply present themselves,

![[mnt-sinai-15.png]]

one after another,

![[mnt-sinai-12.png]]

often with no discernible link between them.

![[mnt-sinai-13.png]]

The mind, when operating in a standard dream context,

![[mnt-sinai-16.png]]

supplies the rationale for the sequence of images thus encountered,

![[mnt-sinai-17.png]]

with this rationale being implemented in the currency of a feeling.

![[mnt-sinai-18.png]]

In other words, the images in a standard dream need have no relation to one another whatsoever.

![[mnt-sinai-19.png]]

What they do have, however, is a confident feeling,

![[mnt-sinai-22.png|200]]

in the mind of the viewer, that they are linked.

![[mnt-sinai-21.png]]

In other words, it would appear that the Authors of dreams,

![[mnt-sinai-23.png]]

rather than doing the hard work of actually constructing a coherent narrative,

![[mnt-sinai-24.png]]

simply cat a series of images one after another, into the mind,

![[mnt-sinai-26.png]]

and add a feeling on top that "all these images form a story."

![[mnt-sinai-27.png]]

Armed with that feeling, the viewer never questions the sequence.

![[mnt-sinai-34.png]]

And no matter how absurd is the sequence of images in a dream,

![[mnt-sinai-33.png]]

the dreamer finds each image to be entirely sensible,

![[mnt-sinai-35.png]]

almost inevitable,

![[mnt-sinai-36.png]]

in the context of the rest.

![[mnt-sinai-45.png]]

While any imaginable scene may be found in a dream,

![[mnt-sinai-46.png]]

one scene one never finds is skepticism of the genre itself.

![[mnt-sinai-47.png]]

The viewer never stops and says "Back up, that doesn't follow."

![[mnt-sinai-48.png]]

Or "That was a total digression."

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-01.jpg]]

From an Author's point of view,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-02.jpg]]

this is an extremely convenient fact.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-03.jpg]]

The Author of dreams need not be skilled,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-04.jpg]]

either in the choice of words,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-06.jpg]]

or in the art of telling stories.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-07.jpg]]

The Authors need only to provide the images.

![[mnt-sinai-30.png]]

Real or imaginary.

![[mnt-sinai-31.png]]

And trust that the genre will take care of the rest.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-14.jpg]]

While the viewer passively watches,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-15.jpg]]

and ideally gets some rest.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-16.jpg]]

That is the aim of sleep, after all.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-24.jpg]]

Anyways,

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-23.jpg]]

that's enough from us for now.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-17.jpg|300]]

Get some rest.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-19.jpg]]

We'll let you fill in the rest.

![[proto-sinaitic-decipherment-20.jpg|300]]

Sincerely,

𐤁𐤔𐤋𐤔𐤉𐤌 𐤅𐤔𐤕𐤉𐤌 𐤍𐤕𐤉𐤁𐤅𐤕 𐤐𐤋𐤉𐤀𐤅𐤕 𐤇𐤊𐤌𐤄 𐤇𐤒𐤒 𐤉𐤄

![[mnt-sinai-54.png]]

Until next time,

𐤏𐤔𐤓𐤉𐤌 𐤅𐤔𐤕𐤉𐤌 𐤀𐤅𐤕𐤉𐤅𐤕 𐤉𐤎𐤅𐤃 𐤇𐤒𐤒𐤍 𐤇𐤑𐤁𐤍 𐤑𐤓𐤐𐤍 𐤔𐤒𐤋𐤍

![[mnt-sinai-55.png]]

𐤅𐤄𐤌𐤉𐤓𐤍 𐤅𐤑𐤓 𐤁𐤄𐤌 𐤀𐤕 𐤊𐤋 𐤄𐤉𐤑𐤅𐤓 𐤅𐤀𐤕 𐤊𐤋 𐤄𐤏𐤕𐤉𐤃 𐤋𐤑𐤅𐤓

Love always,

-LD

[[lost+found/2/2|IRET]]

![[proto-sinaitic.png]]
